Rep. Ilhan Omar proposes radical remaking of America
NEW
You can now listen to Fox News articles!
This is a rush transcript from "The Five," July 8, 2020. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS HOST: Hi. I'm Greg Gutfeld, with Jesse Watters, Juan Williams, Dana Perino, and Kennedy, THE FIVE. A hundred liberal rioters signed an open letter in Harper's condemning cancel culture as an attack on free thought, to which I say better late than never. A wise man once said every good deed could've been done sooner so I applaud them for joining the fight, finally.
Even though some of them, they didn't seem to mind cancel culture when it takes aim at people like you or me. In fact, some of them did take aim at me, and maybe you. But now, it's targeting them and they could lose a book deal, hence the letter. It's the old adage that liberals should have learned by now. You can be nice to a crocodile but he will still eat you, albeit last.
So the open letter is cute, but why not actively defend people who are being cancelled right now, who aren't part of this elite group that signed the letter? Why not help those who've lost their jobs and not just speaking engagements? Instead, they say they want end cancel culture because its existence will help Trump. No, you should want to end it because you helped create it.
It rose from the toxic mud of academia, energized by the cowardice of liberals and media politics and business. The cancellers can smell their fear. So if you say something that they don't like, they will contact your workplace and hound your bosses online until you're finally fired. The First Amendment matters little if they can still ruin your career and life.
Yesterday, I asked, where is the silent majority? The answer, in hiding from an unstable, angry mob. These open letter warriors should fight for them, not just for themselves. The people who make a stupid mistake and lose their jobs, they don't have rich friends. I mean, we could win this thing if we fight this thing together. But do it alone, you lose. So Kennedy, I actually loved the letter.
I mean, it's kind of bland. I love it. But there's part of me that's bothered by the fact that they are doing it now because they finally feel the heat that other people have felt.
LISA KENNEDY MONTGOMERY, FOX NEWS HOST: I was wondering when this was going to happen. I was wondering when we were going to arrive at the point where rabid ultra-leftists would wake up and be reasonable for a second, because cancel culture, it knows no bounds. It knows no party. And it's a very, very hungry beast. And as we have seen, it does nothing because there is no end game.
If you have a list of demands that you think you're going to meet and end the outrage, that's never going to happen. They will come up with new items on that list. They will come up with new lists and new enemies. And guess what, it doesn't matter if you are one of the coastal elites. They are coming for you. So it's about damn time that someone, as a group, stood up for free speech, especially that which you disagree with most.
GUTFELD: Yeah. Now, Juan, if they had asked you to sign this letter, would you have?
JUAN WILLIAMS, FOX NEWS HOST: I'm not sure. I think so. But I mean, you know, I resist sort of joining in any kind of club like that. And you saw it in terms of the response from some on the far left. You said, hey, these are been with high-paying jobs who are just worried about losing their next speech. You know, they are not speaking out for everyone.
But Greg, I agree for the most part because, you know, you know, I have been fired for speaking my mind, right? So I have lost a job because of this. I literally wrote a book called Muzzle, the Assault on Honest Debate about this. You know, what's ironic and what troubles me, and the reason I would've hesitated is I think that ideological debate today is more open than it's ever been, in large part because no matter -- what your voice carries.
There is a social media platform for you today. Those voices are going to get heard more so than ever before. And I think that's a good thing. You know, people talk about cancel culture. But, you know, it plays, just as Kennedy says, it plays on the left. It plays on the right. President Trump just recently, he's trying to block a book by his knees. He's trying to block Bolton's book. You know, he tried to --
(CROSSTALK)
GUTFELD: That's not cancel culture, Juan.
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAMS: I think it is.
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAMS: -- you're trying to shut somebody up -- I think if you're trying to shut people up.
(CROSSTALK)
GUTFELD: Yeah, I know. We have a delay.
WILLIAMS: OK.
GUTFELD: Cancelling -- cancel culture targets people's careers and tries to ruin them. Now, we are not talking about a person writing a tell-all book. We are talking about obscure people who make a mistake and then their entire lives are destroyed. In this case, there is a group of people saying we have had enough.
And granted, you know, they can -- you know, they might be immune to it, but maybe they are supposed to be the right people to do it at this time.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS HOST: Yeah, right.
WILLIAMS: No. So what I think is if you try to tell somebody you can't write this book. I don't want to hear what you have to say. If you say to a critic, oh, I think you're a murderer, like he said about Joe Scarborough. I think that's cancel culture. It's an attempt to shut somebody up, to muzzle them.
GUTFELD: See --
WILLIAMS: So from my mind --
GUTFELD: I disagree, but we've got to move on.
WILLIAMS: Let me finish my point. I think that you can't use this to excuse people who would spread lies, who would have calls to violence, conspiracy theories, racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, gay-bashing. That's not what we are talking about here. Let's talk about honest debate.
GUTFELD: All right. Jesse, you can comment on what Juan just said that he kind of pushes cancel culture out to encapsulate a whole bunch of things. What say you? You are probably the prime target for cancellation at any time, probably by the people who wrote this open letter.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS HOST: Yeah. If there was a betting pool on who's going to get cancelled off this show, I'd probably be winning. But yeah, no, I agree with your monologue. This was about self-preservation. It wasn't about principles. There was crickets when Republicans were getting scalped left and right. I mean, these people created the mob. The mob turned on them.
And now, they are trying to change the rules in the middle of it to protect their own hide. It reminds me of one of your other monologues when you highlighted the guy who was cheering on the rioters until the rioters came to his neighborhood and burned his neighborhood down, and then he was on the phone with 911 saying where are you.
But they do this in the middle of the game to protect their power, and they do this a lot. Like, they will create a movement and then drop it when it's politically expedient. Like, they did it with CHAZ. They did it with black face, with masks. They've done it with the MeToo movement. They've done it with the de-fund the police movement.
And it's interesting to watch, because the left is always on offense when it comes to the culture war. The right is always on defense. And trust me. Defense does not win championships, because it's a death by 1,000 cuts. They're going to throw litigation. They're going to get you fired. They're going to have legislation.
I mean, it's just a full out assault. And all of a sudden, Trump comes along and he picks up a sword and says let's go on offense, guys. And he starts going after the media. He starts going after the deep state and the anti-Christmas people and the statue topplers. And what does the Republican Party do? They not only don't grab a sword, they don't even pick up a shield and defend.
They just go silent and they've just sat there this whole time. And they haven't even participated in the culture war. And that is no way to win this thing.
GUTFELD: Yeah, good point. You know, Dana, I got a lot of viewers ticked off at me when I was talking about whether the silent majority existed. And I got a lot of emails from people saying, what would you have us do? If we aren't silent, we will probably lose our jobs. I think they are referring to if they talk about supporting Trump or wearing a red hat or criticizing a movement like black lives matter, that they are gone.
PERINO: Yeah. And I understood your point. And I think that, of course, they are polite and they send you an email and they say, but what about us? And I think that you understand them as well, because you've said on this show before we are super privileged to be here on THE FIVE. We have a place where we are free to say whatever we want.
We have bosses that back us up, like, free-speech absolutists. So we are in a much better position than a lot of people because you do see that the consequences of speaking up are not just -- maybe you had a bad couple weeks. It's that you actually lose your ability to feed your family. So when -- I agree with Juan that there has never been a time when you could express your feelings more openly and have a debate.
But what's different now is that you have a situation where people will then call up your employer and demanded that you be fired. And then it's very hard for anybody to get a job after that. Remember the Mozilla CEO? Because he had given $1,000 to prop eight, which was the anti-gay marriage rule referendum in California, but that was at the same time Barack Obama expressly.
That was his position at the time. And everybody reached back and got him. This past week, Boeing had an executive who lost his job for an article that he wrote 30 years ago about women in combat.
GUTFELD: Right.
PERINO: And if you went back 30 years ago and then you looked at the Gallup poll, I'm almost guaranteeing you would find that issue about 75-25 in the country agreeing with him. So he actually lost his position. Boeing lost an executive. His family now is out there. The safest place to be when there's a mob is in the mob. I think that this letter is a welcome thing.
We should want to play red rover, red rover with them, like link arms. OK, let's do it. My last point is there was an author -- I don't know if she signed this letter. But the woman who wrote American Dirt, it was a -- I thought it was a fantastic novel that came out in January. And they cancelled her book tour, not because her book said that illegal immigrants shouldn't come to the country.
No, her book was very sympathetic and empathetic to the plight of illegal immigrants and what they go through. The problem that the cancellers had with her was that she wasn't Latina enough. She was like part Latina, so they cancelled her book tour. They basically tried to run her off the road. So I think if these people that are authors and writers.
If they think, wow, this has gone too far. We should take them up on it and all work together and do what you have talked about before, which is share the risk together.
GUTFELD: I agree with myself as well, Dana. We should share the risk. Coming up, radical Democrat Ilhan Omar calls for dismantling America's economy and political system. What a surprise.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Congresswoman Ilhan Omar proposing a very radical remaking of America. Look at this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ILHAN OMAR (D-MN): As long as our economy and political systems prioritize profit without considering who is profiting, who is being shut out, we will perpetuate this inequality. We must begin the work of dismantling the whole system of oppression wherever we find it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Other members of The Squad introducing a bill that would de-fund the police, eliminate ICE, and establish reparations for people hurt by the criminal justice system, and as Joe Biden coming around to supporting calls to slash police budgets.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The federal government's right to go in and change systemically what's going on. There's a whole range of things that we can do.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We agree that we can redirect some of the funding.
BIDEN: Yes, absolutely.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: OK. So Biden's for de-funding the police. Now, Dana, I'm going to go back to the analogy. You do not dismantle something that you love.
PERINO: That's true. That's a good analogy. Is that an analogy?
(CROSSTALK)
PERINO: But I agree with you on that. OK, so a couple things on this. One, for some reason, de-fund the police doesn't seem to mean de-fund the police in Democratic circles. Redirecting or reforming the police is apparently what they mean by that but they can't say that. They have to say have to say de-fund the police, so no wonder people are a little confused.
I did note that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez did not join these three congresswomen, the usual squad. And I think partly that's because she sees a future for herself. And she knows that it is just too far left to take that position. But Biden is going to have to continue to deal with this. The last thing I would say is that you -- I had an opportunity to travel all around the world.
And, you know, I believe that you could go anywhere and you ask people. Where would you most like to live in the world? And the answer is the United States of America. And the reason is because of our system. It doesn't mean we are perfect. It doesn't mean that we constantly aren't trying to improve and to provide more opportunity and economic mobility.
But I guarantee you. We are still the number one place that everybody would like to be.
WATTERS: Greg, didn't America rescue Ilhan Omar from some pretty brutal circumstances in her country? And now, she's a Congresswoman. And she is funneling a lot of money to her family through her consulting business with her husband.
PERINO: Yeah.
GUTFELD: Yeah. She just funneled $900,000 to her new husband's political company. So basically, she is kind of paying herself. But I get it, because we always knew that she likes to keep things in the family. And it proves that anybody can be corrupt, not just old white men, right? And that -- she's, you know, she's as corrupt as they come. And by the way, I'm not confused by this.
When someone tells you what they want, why not accept it? For so long, we are told when the leftists say de-fund or dismantle, they really don't mean it. Omar and BLM are telling you explicitly what they want. And it's not our system. Remember when it was considered, like, evil to question Omar's patriotism? How does that look now, as she believes that America is the most oppressive evil in the United States?
While, like you point out, she abuses it. She abuses the system. It's amazing -- she got rich. She gained power. She spreads her wealth around. And all of this is just in order for her to destroy the country that gave her these opportunities. Of course, what's next is she'll claim she's the target of violence, because people actually heard what she said, right?
Oh, now they are pouncing on me. But this is the vulnerability of a free country. Our immune system can be penetrated by those who wish to destroy it. But at least she's honest about it, which I give her credit for.
WATTERS: Yeah. Juan, do you think it's a legitimate question to question Omar's patriotism when she says things like this?
WILLIAMS: Not at all. I think it's really wrong. You know, Jesse, we live in a populist age. And that goes for people on the -- because I don't think that there's any question about her patriotism. I think she's a member of Congress and has pledged her loyalty to the United States of America and is glad to be here. But I was just going to say to you --
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAMS: -- age on the le left -- no, dismantle the capitalist. She said that she thinks it's unfair. And guess who says much the same thing? Donald Trump, he says you know what, the system is rigged. It's unfair to the workers. It's unfair to you if you're trying to pay the doctor's bill and pay for your kid to go to school. These elites aren't looking out for you. Gee, that sounds a lot like what Ilhan Omar just said. And so I --
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAMS: -- from left and right.
WATTERS: OK.
WILLIAMS: Of course, he said it. And you know, look, he says, you know, his solution. We should do away with these trade deals. Bring jobs back home. That sounds like her and Bernie Sanders. And one last point, there was a --
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAMS: -- about de-fund the police when people are asked, Americans, left and right, are asked about de-fund the police. Overwhelmingly, they say that is about reform the police, not take away the police.
MONTGOMERY: All right. Tell that to The Squad. All right, first of all, she does hate America, because America is the system, whether you like it or not. If you're a socialist and you want to help people and lift them out of extreme poverty, then you should embrace a free market economy. And if you think that a system that only helps the few happens in America, try looking at Soviet Russia.
Try looking at Zimbabwe. Try looking at Venezuela or even Sweden in the early 1980s when they were not a market economy. When they became a free market economy, then they can have a bigger welfare state, when they actually had a lot of people employed. She despises the system. She doesn't want to improve the system.
And these kinds of structuralists want to undo what is great, not only about America but what America has spread throughout the world. And this system is about two things, creativity and sharing the risk. If you are willing to risk your capital and risk your future on a creative endeavor, then you get to participate fully in the American dream, which she is also doing. And you pointed that out, Jesse, and that makes her a total hypocrite.
WATTERS: OK. Coming up next, President Trump accusing Democrats of playing politics over wanting to reopen schools, what he is threatening to do now, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WILLIAMS: The (AUDIO GAP) turning political. President Trump accusing Democrats of wanting to keep schools closed to help their chances in November. And now, he's threatening to cut funding to states that don't send students back to classrooms. And the CDC will soon be updating guidance on reopening schools. Dana, let me start with you.
I think no matter what the politicians have to say, unless parents feel it safe for their kids to go back, they're not going to send them back to the schools. What do you think?
PERINO: Yeah, I -- like with masks. I really don't want this discussion to end up being political. Parents obviously want their kids to go back to school. We, as Americans and taxpayers, we need our kids back in school. We want them to learn. We want them to socialize. We want them to have all that they get from a school environment.
And parents, especially -- single parents imagine trying to work and not know whether your kids are going to be able to go to school. I mean, it's just incredibly complex. And I don't think that (AUDIO GAP) -- however, you saw today (AUDIO GAP) that the White House and the president saying we (AUDIO GAP) union. I just don't know if the best thing to do is say we're going to cut off your funding when all of the school districts are saying we would like to reopen.
But we're trying to figure out a way to do the distancing. We have to have fewer students in the classrooms. We need more money. It just seems to me, like, a really missed opportunity to try to bring people together and get things done in a good way. And I'm afraid that this is going to turn a lot more political when what we really need is just for parents to feel comfortable.
Teachers to feel comfortable, kids to be able to have the experiences that they absolutely, desperately need to have so that their futures can be assured. You've already had the missed school in the spring semester. Basically, like, write that one off. You think about the summer slide, like, how you forgot to do algebra in June and July and August.
You went back in September. And teachers had to spend three weeks re- teaching you what they did last September. Think about how far behind they are. And that is a real concern for parents all across the country.
WILLIAMS: Jesse, do you think it's a good political strategy to insist that schools be opened when we don't know, you know, where the virus will be in terms of the spread come, you know, late August, September.
WATTERS: If kids don't go back to school in the fall, moms are going to start popping pills, Juan. Dads too. Don't send me e-mails, but I think parents have totally had it with this stuff.
And like my children have fallen so behind, they're never getting into a good college. At this point, I'm going to have to practically donate a building to get them in anywhere any good and I'm probably not going to be able to afford that because I'm going to get canceled by the time they're in college anyway, so it's an absolute mess.
I think honestly, just crack a window, put a mask on, and spray your desk down, and separate it. Not every school district is in Manhattan with a million students crammed into really tight classrooms with a lot of dust. I mean, most school districts are pretty spacious and wide open and not seeing a lot of COVID-19.
And the CDC director said kids aren't really transmitting COVID-19. And out of 130,000 people that have died in the United States from COVID-19, only 29 of them have been children. So if Biden wants to run on opening borders and closing schools, that may swing some suburban females back into Trump's camp.
WILLIAMS: Greg, just picking up on an earlier point. Why threaten the funding if this decision really is about, you know, local and state governments?
GUTFELD: I can go both ways. If it's about state government maybe there shouldn't be any funding. I don't know. But when this started out, OK, let's go back four or five months, this was a -- this was a unified battle. We were all in this together. We were all coming together to flatten the curve.
Who politicized it? It was the Democrats blocking the bills, the funding. Then they started to lionize Governor Cuomo to help people ignore the fact that all these people were dying in rest homes. Then they bashed hydroxychloroquine because Trump was for it. Then -- now, they blame Trump for mass death.
They have been politicizing this from day one while Trump was trying to fight this as an American war. He said this was a war. He wanted us to be unified. The only reason why I think the Democrats are politicizing this is because of 130,000 deaths in the United States, 94,000 of them are in Democrat-led states, 35,000 are in Republican states. The death rate per 1,000 people is double, nearly double, not quite double but nearly double in Democrat versus Republican states. So they have to politicize it or else they'll be exposed for their fallibility.
WILLIAMS: Kennedy, the president disagreed with the CDC guidelines for reopening. Now, the CDC says they're going to redo it. What do you think?
MONTGOMERY: I think as a mom, I've got two kids in New York City schools, and it's really tough because we're getting so much conflicting information. And it's hard because they're -- they need time to study the virus. They need time to come up with a full picture. And so, when you just sought abstract information from here or there, if you're really paranoid, you never want to want to send your kid back to school. If you really want to work and you believe in freedom, then you at least want to give it a shot.
And as a mom, I have to say, it sucks. Because yes, we don't want to leave our kids at home alone. It is not a sustainable system. But also, you don't want to send them into these petri dishes where they could go get sick, bring home germs, and infect vulnerable family members. I don't think we're there yet, but I agree with Jesse that this is not a one size fits all solution.
And Thomas Massie, the great congressman from Kentucky has put up a bill several times to essentially defund the Department of Education, because top-down education, it doesn't work. Give parents more choices and let's have solutions that are you know, geographic and local and not just a political mudslinging fight.
PERINO: Right.
WILLIAMS: Thanks, mom. Kanye West making waves again after announcing his bid for president. Stay with us to hear what he's now saying about Donald Trump and Joe Biden, next on THE FIVE.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MONTGOMERY: Kanye West giving a very interesting interview on his run for president. Yes, you have another choice in the race. The rapper breaking with President Trump saying he's taking his red hat off, but that doesn't mean he has any love for Joe Biden and the Democrats saying, "A lot of times just like political parties, they feel all blacks have to be Democrat. This man Joe Biden said, if you don't vote for me, then you are not black. Well, act like we didn't hear that. We act like we didn't hear that man say that. That man said that."
He sure did. Juan Williams and it didn't sit well with a lot of voters. What do you have to say about that?
WILLIAMS: Well, obviously didn't bother nine out of 10 black voters who are still voting for Biden. But you know, you can't discount these popular culture figures, Kennedy. After President Trump's victory, I think the door is open. Now, I must say there are rules. And Kanye, I think Dana pointed this out last time we discussed it, he's missed filing deadlines in like five states. So that puts him at a tremendous Electoral College disadvantage if he's actually going to go out there and run.
And I think -- I read this interview, his thing against vaccinations, calling it you know, beastly and the like, I mean, what happened? Polio has he forgotten? I mean, I think that's a real negative. Now, he does say in the interview, that the government should be run like Wakanda. Well, it might be good. I don't know. It might be better than the one we have, but it's all fantasy to me.
MONTGOMERY: From Black Panther. That is an uplifting image. Yes. And -- but you know, I have to say, I like that he's getting in there mixing things up and talking about things and ways that no one else's because the two-party system gets so stale, Jesse. He also said that Joe Biden is not special. Is Joe Biden special, Jesse?
WATTERS: Yes, no, it's so true. He's not special. I just can't believe Juan is actually saying that Kanye West has missed some filing deadline. OK, where are we right now? I don't think he's going to make those deadlines, Juan. But I will tell you this. I think if you're a Democrat and you feel disenfranchised, that you should write in Kanye West's name on the ballot this November.
If you live in Philadelphia, Milwaukee, or Detroit, and you're feeling Kanye, you should write his name in because, hey, Kanye is Kanye. And maybe he didn't take the red hat off, maybe he just throw it in the closet for a second, but I'm feeling pretty good about a Kanye write-in situation.
MONTGOMERY: Or Greg, maybe he's working with President Trump. Maybe they're in cahoots.
GUTFELD: He could be.
MONTGOMERY: And the President has advised him to get into the race to siphon off some critical votes from Joe Biden.
GUTFELD: He could decide the election if he chooses to. The most important thing he said in the interview is that he doesn't mind if he takes black votes from the Democrats, which then helps Trump because he said -- because he said, I think I'm quoting him, that the black -- saying that the black vote is Democratic is a form of racism and white supremacy.
And this goes back to what I said yesterday. He's creating a voting bloc, independent of parties to get both sides to vie for that block. Remember, the Democrats don't have to vie -- they don't think they have to vie for blacks. Republicans try to vie every single election and they don't do that well.
He has to run as a Democrat in order to get the Democrats to pay attention to him or they're going to lose.
MONTGOMERY: I don't know. Dana, how do you see this race shaping up with the -- my 11-year-old? You know her. She asked me the other day. She's like, mommy, are you voting for Kanye? So, I don't know what to do right now.
PERINO: Look, you know, celebrity and fame gives you an opportunity to be able to have a platform of which he does. I will say, in Juan's defense, I'm the one who brought up that he had missed the filing deadlines. And that is just a fact that he -- that he has. The write-in is certainly a possibility.
I do question the judgment of giving this first interview to Forbes. Obviously, that interview should have gone to the "DAILY BRIEFING" and we'll be happy to have him anytime.
MONTGOMERY: Well, you know what? Tomorrow we'll see what happens because those follow ups, they're coming fast and furious, like the "FASTEST SEVEN," which is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: Welcome back. It's time for the "FASTEST SEVEN." And first up, ever wonder what the key difference is between older and younger generations? This viral video says it's all in how you hold a phone.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pretend you're talking on the phone. What would be your hand gesture?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. Pretend you're talking on the phone. What would be your hand gesture? Yes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: All right, I know. Kennedy, this is going to be something that's going on in your house right now.
MONTGOMERY: It's amazing, because my kids don't know what this means, when you're telling someone to hang up the phone. If I did that to them, they're like, no, no Shaka, mom. It's so perfect. I love it so much. And you know, I don't know how they hang up the phone though, do they?
PERINO: I don't think -- Greg, I don't think you hang up the phone anymore. I think you end a call.
GUTFELD: That is true. You know what, a lot -- a lot of kids don't understand anything like crank calls. You don't crank calls. I remember how excited my sister and I were when we got an extension cord, an extension line for the phone so we could drag the phone to our separate rooms. And there'd be cords all over the floor. And there'd always be food stuck in the dial of the phone because we're always eating crap.
I also miss clever answering machine messages from people who think they're funny. Remember that?
PERINO: Oh, yes, I love that. Jesse, apparently also kids don't know the word, rewind. They -- like you know, rewinding like a tape. They think you just go back so you got to teach them.
WATTERS: Yes. They -- I have a generation gap hiccup situation too with the twins. So, if I'm ever talking or doing something and they want me to stop, you know what they say? They say pause. Like I'm like a T.V. show or a YouTube video. They say pause dad. Like they're pointing a remote at me. I'm like, what is that?
PERINO: Juan, anything like this happening around you and the grandkids?
WILLIAMS: You know what bothers me is when people are walking down the street, Dana, and they have the earbuds in and they're talking. And I think either talking to me, or I think they're kind of crazy and talking to themselves. But that's -- young people do it all the time. I just -- I don't like it. I just find it odd. Social -- anti-social is what I think.
PERINO: The best thing to do, Juan, is just don't think anyone is talking to you, and just keep on walking. Keep on walking.
WILLIAMS: OK. Just keep moving.
PERINO: All right. Next up, the Coronavirus taking the fun out of riding roller coasters in Japan. Theme parks there now banning any screaming on those rides. And Kennedy, what they said is that you're supposed to scream in your heart.
MONTGOMERY: I know -- I know TikTok is about to be canceled or whatever, but I see this as a TikTok challenge. When theme parks finally open here, I challenge people to try and go on Tower of Terror at Disney and try to not scream. It's impossible.
PERINO: Jesse, could you -- could you go on a roller coaster and not scream?
WATTERS: I think three of us here. Well, you and Greg couldn't get on the roller coaster because you're too short, but I couldn't go on the roller coaster because I would scream. I'm a screamer. And I can't snuffle it.
PERINO: The other reason he probably wouldn't want to go on the roller coaster, Greg, is because he wouldn't want to mess up his hair.
GUTFELD: That is true. Did you notice that --
WATTERS: Good point.
GUTFELD: did you notice that COVID strikes everything that's fun? Rollercoasters, going to bars, going to parties, hugging your grandmother, these are all fun things. Wouldn't it be great if there was an illness that told you, you had to avoid really boring things? Like there's a new mysterious deadly disease that only strikes when you watch CNN. So don't watch CNN.
PERINO: That's -- you know, we could start the rumor. We could start the rumor. Juan Williams, how do you feel about this? I mean, in Japan, they have a lot of self-control.
WILLIAMS: Yes, well, that would take a lot of self-control, Dana. I don't ride roller coasters, but when I am forced to because of children, I just close my eyes and grit my teeth. I don't scream but it's like an internal scream, I tell you that.
PERINO: Yes. Well, you know, I don't like noises so a silent rollercoaster ride could be maybe something I would like. I can't go on anymore anyway. I'm too old and too short. All right, "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." I'm going to go first. And you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to plug my book because every now and then I do that. It's called The Plus. It will make your life better. It's the only self-help book ever made for people who hate self-help, and it's changed my life for the better. Can't you tell?
Anyway, you can go to Greg -- https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=http-3A__GGutfeld.com&d=DwICAg&c=cnx1hdOQtepEQkpermZGwQ&r=tgDLkJy54PfJyWJwul3dKe54qGxqO7b7d5vjo7RcZds&m=BuSKpNLLl7u-SLg3eiB1JuaaAXOzRArFSNe7fKPIWX0&s=cRKnXAU9qanLfkbr5a_4WGgNrD7EDXQEJ8VvCMIymc8&e= , or you can go to Amazon or https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=http-3A__BarnesandNoble.com&d=DwICAg&c=cnx1hdOQtepEQkpermZGwQ&r=tgDLkJy54PfJyWJwul3dKe54qGxqO7b7d5vjo7RcZds&m=BuSKpNLLl7u-SLg3eiB1JuaaAXOzRArFSNe7fKPIWX0&s=YqvC6fySzDK7WAdF4nETQLuclbvt_Tqp5PwLz1Oa0kE&e= and order. And if you don't like it, wow, Dana will refund the money. Right, Dana?
PERINO: Yes, absolutely. Just send me a note.
GUTFELD: There you go.
PERINO: Send me your Venmo.
GUTFELD: Yes. Send her a note. Yes, send her a Venmo. I've never done Venmo. But anyway, that's neither here nor there. Dana, you are next.
PERINO: All right, I want to talk about a dog, but not my dog. OK, so this is where a dog has learned all of these words, but they basically -- he can communicate with them by using a soundboard. Check this out.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Home.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, exactly. We're home now.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Love you, mom.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, I love you too bunny.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: So, that's a one-year-old sheepadoodle. His owner is Alexis and she introduced him to this special soundboard. And he has 45 different words that he knows. He can do Hi, Yes, Goodbye, and Want. He even has learned outside for whenever he has to go out to use the restroom. So I think that's very clever, and I'm sad I didn't think of it first.
GUTFELD: You know, Dana, my ferret and I often play the Ouija board together.
PERINO: And what do you learn?
GUTFELD: I just thought I'd tell you that. Well, we learned that he has a lot of dead friends. It's sad but true. Jesse?
WATTERS: I would love to just take that soundbite right there, and just clip that out. It's brilliant, Greg. First, I'd just like to wish you a very speedy recovery to Connie Broussard. And we hope she's doing well and getting better very soon. All right, so we have Jesse's Friendly Neighborhood Dispute news. And it's an update now.
PERINO: Right.
WATTERS: Here we go. Remember the clip we showed you yesterday, the guy mowed the lawn, and he left his neighbor's like lawn uncut, basically like two feet of it uncut just to prove a point. Well, was this the right move or the wrong move? So we asked everybody to weigh in and 4,000 of you guys weighed in.
Here's some of the comments. Dana's aunt Patty Sue weighing in saying "No. If you are mowing your side, be a good neighbor and take two more swipes." Here's some others. "No, has to be a Democrat. He mowed the left only." Makes sense. And "Yes, because if you do they'll accuse you of trying to steal their property." Maybe. And then, "Yes, it's OK to mow just your lawn. Where does it stop though, trash cans, washing a car in the driveway, the paper?" It never stops.
So the results are in. 65 percent said yes, it's OK to mow your lawn like that and leave your neighbor that measly little strip just to prove a point. I didn't want to say anything because I didn't want it to be a push poll. I would never do that. I would just mow my neighbor's lawn like that. But America disagrees again with me and my mowing and my poop problems. So there you have it. I'm out of the mainstream.
PERINO: We want to cut that sound bite.
GUTFELD: There you go. You're not going to be a pain in the grass. All right, Juan?
WILLIAMS: All right, so you guys know I love ice cream as you can see from this video with Dana and Emily as I was eating ice cream last year at serendipity in New York City. Well, this summer, there are going to be some new flavors. Take a look at what the Heinz company is serving up. They have Do It Yourself kits to create ice cream in some very unusual flavors like mayonnaise, barbecue, salad dressing, and of course, Heinz ketchup.
WATTERS: What?
WILLIAMS: Each recipe kit comes with a golden spoon, golden ice cream scoop, and a bottle of your favorite condiment, I guess a lot of ketchup. The kits cost $17. But currently, you can only get them in England. My fear is they're going to be here soon because I don't think I could stomach it.
GUTFELD: Kennedy, you've got 20 seconds.
MONTGOMERY: All right, Oregon, keep Oregon weird. These two people did. A guy in a stolen car hit a woman with that stolen car. Guess what? Her car was also stolen. And it's right a couple of larcenists and she was boozed up. Good job, Oregon.
Content and Programming Copyright 2020 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2020 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.