'The Five' slam Biden's 'misplaced priorities' in the US education system
The panel discusses the challenges facing students as school boards focus on mask mandates and many kids fall behind.
NEW
You can now listen to Fox News articles!
This is a rush transcript of "The Five" on October 15, 2021. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS HOST (on camera):  Hello, everybody. I'm Jesse 
Watters, along with Katie Pavlich, Jessica Tarlov, Shannon Bream, and Brian 
Kilmeade.
It's five o'clock in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
The harsh reality of Joe Biden's America really coming into focus these 
past couple of weeks. The president getting ridiculed online as hash tag 
empty shelves Joe over the supply chain crisis he waited too long to fix. 
And as if that wasn't bad enough gas prices are up 10 percent in just the 
past month, the highest level in seven years. The buck never seems to stop 
with this president but listen to what then candidate Biden had to say last 
year when people were trying to stock up on food and goods. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:  We don't have a foot 
shortage problem. We have a dealership problem. One of the reasons why 
we're not getting material and food to people's tables is because there's 
no way to get it transported to there. We don't know how to manage what's 
going on. 
We can't afford to let people go wondering where they're going to get their 
next meal. And so right now, hungry today and about scarce, it's about 
massive failure in leadership. 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS (on camera): And earlier today President Biden once again pushing 
his massive $3.5 million cradle to grave welfare expansion spending plan 
even amid this record inflation.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
BIDEN:  We cannot be competitive in the 21st century in this global economy 
if we fail to invest. But pay your fair share. Just pay a decent portion of 
what we lay out in these -- this piece of legislation. If you add it all up 
over the years. And the cost of the Build Back Better in terms of adding to 
the deficit is zero. So, when I hear people say it costs 3.5 trillion, be 
honest with you, we're probably not going to get 3.5 trillion this year, 
we're going to get something less than that. 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS (on camera): So, we got a lie, we got a whisper and we got a 
backtrack, Katie. 
BRIAN KILMEADE, FOX NEWS HOST:  Yes.
WATTERS:  We still have a show. That's good. We're good, right? 
KATIE PAVLICH, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR:  That's a lot to handle. And we got 
all kinds of things. So, the president is trying to blame private industry 
for not getting the job done. But I did a little bit more research on this 
problem with the port in California specifically having all of these 
shipping containers not being unloaded. 
Well, leave it to leftist policies in California to compound problems that 
Democrats have put on the federal level. Remember that California passed 
AB-5 which eliminates private contractors essentially because they have to 
be classified as employees. 
Well, it turns out there's a lot of private contractors who drive trucks 
and in California there's 75,000 of them. So there's this problem now where 
these companies are trying to off-load stuff to get it across the country, 
can't find workers and drivers who have trucks because California 
reclassifies them as full-time employees even though they're private 
contractors. 
The White House this week actually has taken the idea that they want to 
unionize these guys. They're arguing that workers are being mistreated, 
that they need to be in a union. But these contractors are saying no we 
just want to work for the people we want to work for and a lot of us have 
trucks and we're unable to do that as a result of your policies. 
So, that is one of the main reasons why you're also seeing a lack of this 
stock across the country. One more thing. I mean, Joe Biden said this week 
that people are going to work throughout the night on the highways, right, 
they're going to clear out highways, to hire truck drivers? Where are you 
going to find the workers if you have all these independent contractors who 
can't work as a result of this law that California passed two years ago. 
WATTERS:  So, Katie did some research for this show today, Brian. Have you 
done your research? 
KILMEADE:  Show kind of snuck up on me. I took a lot of calls. Yes, I've 
been thinking about it and talking about it the last few days starting with 
that tweet. When that was retweeted by Ron Klain, Bret -- to drop names, 
Bret Baier was in -- doing the radio show to drop shows, and he came in and 
he said, I cannot believe Ron Klain just retweeted this is a high, you 
know, a high-class problem. 
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  A high class problem.
KILMEADE:  And the thing is, I think what the president misunderstands is 
that this is the only thing outside the pandemic that you could see in your 
lifetime that hits every single person. It's just how you handle it. 
WATTERS:  Right.
KILMEADE:  How you handle the gas, how you handle by trying to rent a car, 
buy a car. How you handle trying to buy some milk, some meat and can you 
buy milk without meat? I don't think so because I like to dunk. 
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  You dunk your meat in milk? 
KILMEADE:  Yes, it's a long story. 
WATTERS:  What are you crushing? 
KILMEADE:  This is why I don't do the cooking segments on Fox & friends. 
Crushing? No, it would later become Russian, no, Germany. You're right. 
WATTERS:  Austria and Hungary it's all the same.
KILMEADE:  Yes, Austria -- yes, but Russia would later become --
PAVLICH:  Anyway, the shelves are empty Brian.
(CROSSTALK)
KILMEADE:  That's all I hear.
PAVLICH:  The shelves here in America. 
KILMEADE:  What I would like to add is this. He just amalgamated everything 
that they told him before the event. You're not going to get you 3.5 
trillion, it's going to cost you nothing, it's going to be two trillion but 
it doesn't matter anyway, it's going to be free. 
That scares everybody. It (Inaudible) weighs in and says look what's going 
to happen with inflation. This is not -- this is not the time to spend and 
the wombling underneath is the oil and gas. He's begging them to start 
pumping again in America. How dare he when he actually defamed them for the 
past nine months. 
WATTERS:  Excellent point by Kilmeade that the price increases affect 
everybody in this country, just as the pandemic did. 
SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT & ANCHOR:  Yes, and everybody gets 
it. When you go get gas, and it's 43 percent higher I think than a year 
ago, people get that, that's your everyday life running kids to work and 
school and all that kind of stuff. And as you point out we have this 
headline and now confirmed by people who are speaking on off the record 
that they are talking to the White House about please produce more gas. 
This administration has promised to get rid of fossil fuels, --
WATTERS:  Yes.
BREAM:  -- they have stopped drilling leases for people. They have talk now 
about the fact that they may unleash from the strategic petroleum reserve 
which is supposed to be for super-duper, you know, catastrophic events 
where we can't get oil out of the Middle East and that kind of thing. 
People get it. And this industry insiders now in oil and gas are saying no, 
thank you. You've been talking about destroying us, we're not going to work 
with you on this, at least we don't have an appetite to do it. 
KILMEADE:  Get a four-year contract. Get a longer contract. Get longer 
commitments. 
BREAM:  Yes, get something out of it. Because crude has hit, I think $80 a 
barrel here in the U.S. for the first time in seven years. So, these guys 
don't want to play this game when they have an administration who says 
we're going to get rid of you. 
WATTERS:  And that's a tough line that we just from Biden when he was 
running that says if you see empty shelves, it's a failure of leadership. I 
can see that running in every district in the midterms. 
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR:  The midterms are going to be tough. 
They were going to be tough even if we had had an easy recovery. Actually, 
it's what history dictates about a president, and you know, when they have 
control of everything. You get two years, that's how we get the Affordable 
Care Act and then Obama had a really tough time. 
I was talking last night with my mother-in-law about the empty shelves 
thing, she said she lives in northern New Jersey, that I'm noticing this 
more and more. And then we started talking about how during the pandemic 
when there were empty shelves, we all understood why. Right? There was a 
clear reason that we could not get -- 
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  Kilmeade was hoarding toilet paper. 
KILMEADE:  Right. Which was a mistake in retrospect that we react.
BREAM:  Yes, but you still have and you're going to need it --
(CROSSTALK) 
WATTERS:  Release the strategic toilet paper reserve. 
KILMEADE:  You're right. 
WATTERS:  Yes, yes.
TARLOV:  I, myself, did hoard toilet paper. 
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  No one knows why, but we all did. 
TARLOV:  I used it eventually I finished like yesterday basically. But 
that's something that, yes, every American understands right now and if you 
look at the latest batch of polling even though it seems like President 
Biden's personal favorability has ticked up in the last couple of polls. 
BREAM:  What? 
TARLOV:  You see the CNN poll had him at 50 percent favorability. 
KILMEADE:  Yes, so does CBS and so does the Morning Consul. 
(CROSSTALK)
TARLOV:  Thank you, Brian.
KILMEADE:  I have read it over the weekend.
TARLOV:  Look at his research.
BREAM:  But he's falling away from independents and people --
(CROSSTALK) 
KILMEADE:  It was stunning.
BREAM:  -- who feel like --
TARLOV:  I'm not -- I wasn't done, I was going to say some negative things. 
WATTERS:  Wow. 
TARLOV:  Yes.
WATTERS:  Please continue. 
TARLOV:  Well, in that case we'll let Jessica speak. 
KILMEADE:  You have more time. Hold the break.
TARLOV:  The numbers that are really concerning are, you know, the lack of 
trust certainly on handling of the pandemic and inflaming. It's 80 percent 
of Americans are concerned about inflation, that's independent, Republicans 
and Democrats. And that makes a difficult midterm even more difficult when 
you go into it. 
And I think when we've talked about this a lot, you know, just 
acknowledging people's pain goes so far for politicians, no matter what 
party you belong to. 
KILMEADE: Absolutely.
TARLOV:  I'm just saying I know it's rough out there right now and these 
are the steps that we are taking. 
WATTERS:  Well if you keep talking like that, we'll let you talk longer, 
Jessica. 
TARLOV:  It doesn't seem like it. It looks like you're going to commercial 
--
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  We got to go. 
BREAM:  For now.
WATTERS:  Up next, every parent is going to want to hear this. As the left 
focuses on masking your kids a stunning new report reveals how badly our 
children are suffering academically.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BREAM (on camera): Teachers unions and school boards across the country 
have been focused on mask mandates and remote learning for a big chunk of 
the last year, shocking new studies reveals just how bad things have really 
gotten for your kids. 
The reports shows that student test scores across the country have fallen 
for the first time in the nation's history. Thirteen-year-olds are less 
proficient in math and reading than they were almost a decade ago. That's 
according to data collected just before the start of the pandemic. 
Jesse, you got school aged kiddos. This was before the pandemic things were 
getting bad. 
WATTERS:  Yes. 
BREAM:  How much worse has it been for the last year and a half. 
WATTERS:  Well, they're OK because they were in Catholic schools and the 
Catholic schools don't play. They were in-person --
BREAM:  That's true. 
WATTERS:  -- learning and reading so we're grateful for that. But in 
slavery the ruling class would not allow black Americans to read. They 
didn't want them to have an education. Why? Because knowledge is power and 
if someone doesn't have that knowledge and power it's easier to dominate 
you. 
And that thinking is still prevalent today. The ruling class in this 
country and all over the world, they don't want this generation that 
educated. They want them educated enough so they can do menial jobs and 
kind of entry level management. 
But they don't want them intelligent so they start asking questions like, 
where are all the hundreds of billions of dollars that are going into these 
public-school systems that keep failing? Why don't they teach economics in 
school? Why do they keep failing students and then graduating them to the 
next class? 
And you wonder why people can't do math, and then you realize that they're 
teaching you that math is racist. So there are powerful people in this 
country that don't care about education. They want indoctrination. They 
want people mad at the other race. And they want them kind of divided so 
they're distracted and dumb so they're not seeing what the ruling class is 
doing, raiding the treasury, opening the boarders and sending all the jobs 
to China. 
BREAM:  Jessica, that feels very brave new world. It's very Aldous Huxley -
-
TARLOV:  Right.
BREAM:  -- from Jesse. 
TARLOV:  I always try to think before the show like what will Jesse say. 
And I did it not -- 
(CROSSTALK)
KILMEADE:  Brace it.
WATTERS:  It doesn't take too long. 
BREAM:  Did you have down Aldous Huxley? 
TARLOV:  I did not --
BREAM:  Brave new world? 
TARLOV:  No, definitely not and obviously I vehemently disagree with the 
comparison to what slave owners were doing in trying to keep people 
enslaved and working on plantations versus what educators and, quote, 
"ruling class folks are doing." And I have --
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  Well, if you think about it --
TARLOV:  Don't defend it. 
WATTERS:  -- though for a second because you're not allowing people to do 
charter schools and now, they're saying you don't want parents to have a 
stake in their child's education. If you interrupt that little power 
structure that we have set up right now, that unleashes the beast. 
BREAM:  You know, we've been talking about how that may be one of the big 
things in this Virginia governor's race. 
TARLOV:  It is. Absolutely. And there was the comment that Terry McAuliffe 
made during the debate about this. It's certainly an important issue. I 
just --we have a ton of charter schools in this country and Democrats 
believe that we also need to improve the public schools so that everyone 
can have an opportunity to have a great education. 
And there are a lot of Democrats who are pro charter school, I would mind 
you to even look at Michelle Rhee's work, obviously it's a great example of 
that. They're definitely failing in the public-school system. The impact of 
not only Zoom school but the mental health strain of the last 18 months on 
young people, I'm sure, is going to continue to factor into these testing 
results.
And living here I've been following closely, obviously what Eric Adams who 
will be our mayor come election day here in New York City has been saying 
and Mayor de Blasio has talked about eliminating our gifted and talented 
programs. And Eric Adams came out and said, a, I don't think you can do 
that, and b, I would never do that. 
And I think that keeping the standards makes such a difference, especially 
in helping along the kids who are succeeding in these systems and also 
identifying the kids who may need a little bit of extra help. And I hope 
that obviously that those programs stay and we see more of that. 
BREAM:  Yes. And Katie, she mentioned, Jessica talks about the mental 
health issues and I was reading today about this one CEO of a children's 
hospital in Connecticut said that they are so overwhelmed with beds for 
children who need inpatient psychiatric care because of what they've been 
through the last year and a half and that's certainly not going to reflect 
well educationally either. 
PAVLICH:  I think for a lot of parents and logically thinking people, this 
is especially infuriating. Because if you look at the consequences and all 
the data whether it's mental health or test scores, this was obvious in 
summer of 2020. 
You had Senator Rand Paul have an exchange with Dr. Fauci in May of 2020 
saying hey, we really need schools to be open in the fall because there 
will be consequences, especially for minority students if we don't do that, 
whether it's mental health or their education, falling behind and they'll 
never going to be able to make it up. 
When you look at these numbers, it's like, how are these kids ever going to 
be able to get that time back? How are they ever going to catch up, 
especially when you have unions who repeatedly, over the past year, 
whenever there was a compromise made for them to get back to the class room 
they threw up another roadblock, we want more money, we want more vaccines, 
we want this, we want that. 
And then parents who dared to say, well, we would really like our schools 
to be open and we think some of these COVID restrictions are pretty 
ridiculous considering that you guys were vaccinated and put in front of 
the line, and then they were doxed, and then they were shut out of school 
board meetings. 
And then when parents found out what they were actually teaching their 
children because of the Zoom calls, the Zoom learning, they were then 
called racist and bigoted. And so, you know, one silver lining of this may 
be that there is a new school choice revolution that is happening. 
You had a school board member today in Louden County resigned as a result 
of parent --parental involvement. And so again, just generally, you can 
apply the standard of did we see this coming a year ago? We did. And 
because everybody listened to Anthony Fauci, this is the consequence that 
was warned about. 
BREAM:  Well, and a lot of other countries have handled this differently, 
the masking, the kids in school and out of school. But what we found out 
here is that the kids who were already trailing behind are the ones who 
have slipped even further because of this. 
KILMEADE:  Right. I think there's got to be a creative way to attack the 
inner-city schools because money is pouring in but it's not being used in 
an effective way. It's not like they are being starved out. I will say from 
what I judge. My son went to private school, my two daughters went to 
public school, one thing that was consistent, ton of homework. I thought 
there was much more homework. 
They work, and everybody I talk to, I can't believe how much homework these 
kids had. I don't think they had it easy, and I don't -- I have to see 
where these targeted scores are and why they're not producing results. 
But I think you have -- there's a -- what you're saying is correct, too, is 
that, we're putting a lot of money into these schools and it's not 
necessarily Democrat or Republican, Jessica, that talks about charter 
schools. This is great competition.
TARLOV:  Yes.
KILMEADE:  Give an opportunity for these charter schools to compete with 
the public schools, the public schools will get better, the charter schools 
will make the public schools better if a competition happens.
And if Virginia, the changes leaders, changes parties and if we could find 
a way to see if you could take your money, your public-school money, and 
you put it towards the private school, man, game on in terms of 
effectiveness. 
BREAM:  Yes. 
(CROSSTALK)
PAVLICH:  But just real quickly on that -- 
KILMEADE:  That is called standing. That is America. 
PAVLICH:  Well, Terry McAuliffe just said to your point of the charter 
schools getting public money from parents, that he would not allow that as 
governor. 
BREAM:  Yes.
PAVLICH:  And the Democrat --
(CROSSTALK)
BREAM:  And there is a case coming at the Supreme Court in a couple months 
is going to be about money moving with kids and whether it can be used in 
private schools. So, how's that as well?
KILMEADE:  Think about that. The result will be better schools all around.
WATTERS:  Yes. 
BREAM:  All right guys. Ahead, President Biden's disaster in Afghanistan 
getting a brutal assessment from Obama's former secretary of defense.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PAVLICH (on camera): President Biden's failure on the world stage 
continuing to reverberate around the globe with Obama's former secretary -- 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates, saying he was disgusted by the images of 
Biden's disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ROBERT GATES, FORMER U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY:  It was really tough for a few 
days there. I actually wasn't feeling very well, and I realized it was 
because of what was happening in Kabul, and I was just so low about the way 
it had ended, if you will. And I guess the other, the other -- the other 
feeling that I had was that, it probably did not need to have turned out 
that way. 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PAVLICH (on camera): So, Brian, this is really actually I told you so 
moment for Secretary Gates because he said last year that Joe Biden had 
never made a proper or legitimate successful foreign policy decision 
throughout his entire career and this just adds the ending to that. 
KILMEADE:  It is personally crushing for him because he straddles two 
administrations and he knows the families who have lost their lives and 
sacrificed so much and he is choking up there. No doubt about it. 
I mean, for 60 Minutes to do this interview, I'm always interested in what 
he wants -- has to say, he has so much experience and he's had so many 
different jobs dating back to Reagan as the former CIA director. But he 
wrote, and I highlight, I get all my books on line so I can do these 
highlights. 
And I wrote -- highlighted that not knowing before Joe Biden was running 
for president, when he starts running for president Bob Gates essentially 
said I never would have put that in. 
Same thing with General Mattis. General Mattis said something similar. 
General Mattis is in charge of Iraq and Centcom and he's there and he says 
I did an assessment and in comes Joe Biden who's in charge of the 
(Inaudible) where he should pull troops out. 
He said I did an assessment we should keep about 18,000 here. General 
Austin agreed at the time he was there. You know what he did? General 
Mattis writes in his book, he excluded -- he exuded the confidence of a man 
whose mind was already made up, perhaps even indifferent to considering the 
consequences where he judging the situation incorrectly. We're pulling all 
our troops out. 
Everything that Mattis told him and briefed him in detail, he said it 
doesn't matter. I pulled all the troops out. He called up President Obama 
and said look what I did. Later we got the invade -- the creation ISIS we 
almost lost Baghdad if it wasn't for the Kurds and we are still there in 
some way shape or form trying to piece it back together. Iran's influence 
is pervasive because we left when we did.
PAVLICH:  So, Jesse, you know, the fact is that there are still hundreds of 
Americans or maybe thousands of green card holders still stranded in 
Afghanistan and the State Department is now saying months later that 
they're going to row start these evacuation flights which proves --
(CROSSTALK) 
KILMEADE:  There's only a hundred left. 
PAVLICH:  -- that they left people there when they claim that, well, 
everyone who wanted to get out was going to get out and it's not even like 
a blip on the radar for the rest of the media. 
WATTERS:  Or Joe Biden. And that's the point. Gates said he felt sick, 
country felt sick, the military felt sick, we here felt sick. Joe Biden did 
not look like he felt sick about this. And that was one of the main reasons 
why he lost this country. 
We are a very forgiving nation, especially with war. We understand how 
horrible these decisions are. But it looked like the commander in chief 
wasn't taking these decisions he was making seriously. He was dismissive. 
He was defensive. And he looked really casual. And I don't think he'll ever 
be forgiven for that. And we had hearings. 
PAVLICH:  He checked his watch a few times. 
WATTERS:  Not only did he check his watch, Katie. We had families at that 
funeral revolt and stormed out of the room because Biden wasn't connecting. 
He was droning on and on about his son and they were like what about my 
son? And there's something wrong with him there. 
And we had hearings. We learn anything about the hearings? Was anybody 
accountable at the hearings? We subpoenaed some documents, yes, we're going 
to give you some documents, we're not going to get anything. And a year 
later they're going to come back with a report that says this is what we 
did wrong and a bunch of bureaucratic speak that no one can decipher and 
then we're going to pivot to Asia. And then next problem we're going to 
make the same mistake we made in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Vietnam. It's a 
vicious cycle. 
KILMEADE:  Can I just tell you this one thing? They did come from the 
hearings, that nobody recommended the strategy --
BREAM:  Right.
KILMEADE:  -- Joe Biden did. 
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  And you know, has the media confronted Joe Biden about that? 
KILMEADE:  No. 
PAVLICH:  Well, yes.
BREAM:  Well, it's hard to because he won't take questions. 
WATTERS:  Right.
PAVLICH:  Right. To follow up on that, Jessica, you know, the White House 
has not made the president accessible for questions, specifically about 
Afghanistan. If you go back when this happened, they released an e-mail 
statement from the president at the end of America's longest war and 
allowed the Pentagon to kind of announce it and then he was in and out of 
coming back from the beach and Camp David.
(CROSSTALK) 
WATTERS:  He didn't even say anything on 9/11. 
PAVLICH:  Right. So --
KILMEADE:  He reported something.
WATTERS:  Yes.
PAVLICH:  I mean, should the White House be handling this differently by 
offering him up for an interview about specifically Afghanistan.
TARLOV:  I think a lot of Democrats like Bob Menendez who was leading the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee would love to have that as well. And I 
do think that -- 
KILMEADE: Blumenthal.
TARLOV: Blumenthal. I think that the hearings were quite substantive. I 
mean, we talked about what General Milley and Secretary Austin said were 
downright damning, right? There were contradictions of what those 
conversations out of the White House had been saying.
And I would add to what Bob Gates said. I'd offer up also Leon Panetta who 
looked almost tearful in a conversation with Neil Cavuto here on our 
network talking about what's gone on. And you know, he's someone who's been 
talking about these issues obviously for a long time. 
And as a Democrat, one thing that I notice especially when it comes to 
foreign policy is this fissure between the Obama administration and the 
Biden administration. Usually, it's the Obama-Biden administration, right, 
eight years together, bros, et cetera. 
When it comes to these kinds of decisions, you see that there is a marked 
difference between the people who serve President Obama and what they think 
about these things versus the people who are serving in the Biden 
administration. And I know that that's something that really consumes them 
interpersonally as well for those who are carryovers. 
KILMEADE: Except for Susan Rice. 
PAVLICH: Yes. And Shannon, there's never a lot of agreement in Washington 
but there is agreement among the American people. They want some kind of 
accountability. And covering Washington, there's not a lot of that 
happening now or ever. 
BREAM: Yes. Well, as you guys mentioned, there was bipartisan pushback in 
those hearings. And sitting there watching these generals say, well, 
actually, we told him X though he told you we did not tell him X. So, 
there's definitely a disconnect there. 
And there is a bipartisan push to try to get answers on that because we 
have 13 people that a lot of folks think their lives absolutely did not 
need to be put in that position, that they were risked and that they were 
lost. So, there are people that are still there. We have all talked with 
people who are working over there. 
And I still get texts today from special ops veterans who are still 
working. They say it is such a slow process but there are still a lot of 
people there and we are not giving up, we're doing this every day. They 
tell me that the administration is not giving us the full spectrum of 
exactly what's going on over there. 
KILMEADE: State Department especially. 
BREAM: Yes. They say we have our folks on the ground. We know what is 
happening here. There are still people that we are pushing as hard as we 
possibly can. We're not getting a ton of help from the administration, but 
we're not going to give up.
PAVLICH: Yes.
KILMEADE: Erik Prince said he can't -- he says I have a chopper ready to 
go. Permission from Tajikistan to stage rescues and he can't get the 
ambassador -- the United States Ambassador to answer a call from him or 
from the congressman. 
PAVLICH: All right, up next, as the Biden administration gets ready to 
snoop on your bank account, a majority of Americans say they want big 
government out of their lives. 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
KILMEADE: It's hard to convince that cameraman to go on our roof to do that 
slow zoom in but I'm glad he did. 
PAVLICH: Right. 
KILMEADE: A year of government-imposed lockdowns, vaccine mandates, mask 
mandates left and right, and now a plan for the IRS to look into your bank 
account. I'm not kidding. It's really no wonder Americans are fed up with 
government overall.
And a new Gallup poll says this. 43 percent of Americans think the 
government should do more to solve our problems. But here's the big number 
54 say -- 54 said they shouldn't. Maybe Joe Biden's heavy-handed approach 
has soured some folks. 
So, let's start with you, Shannon. This poll surprised me. In a time in 
which people like to blame and point fingers, they're saying I want 
government to do less. They have too much and they've got their hands in 
too many situations. Are you surprised by this?
BREAM: Well, but they voted for an administration who would be for more 
government control. I mean this is the person who's elected. 
KILMEADE: So, you think it's in the response to what we've seen for the 
last -- 
BREAM: I think so. I think they're frustrated. And i think the best 
illustration is college football, OK. You see the stadiums full of like 80, 
90, 100,000 people who say -- 
KILMEADE: What do they chant? I can't make that out. 
BREAM: Let's go, Brandon. 
KILMEADE: Let's go, Brandon?
BREAM: Let's go, Brandon. But I think that that is people showing up saying 
like we're going to make our own decisions. And we've decided this 
situation is okay with our risk-tolerance level. They're going to show up. 
I think that's the kind of pushback, what you're saying. People are tired 
of somebody telling them what to do.
And by the way, I have to mention this because we had this on the show last 
night. University of Florida -- I'm a Seminole, these are Gators, but hey 
they have good information. And they said they've been tracking these 
trends. They say the chief epidemiologist there tracking these big football 
games because they have big football games in Florida. 
He says, not seeing any COVID ramifications. These outdoor events really 
are not the super spreader events that people worried that they were going 
to be. So, I think some Americans are deciding that they know better for 
themselves.
KILMEADE: I didn't think -- we haven't felt this way that the government 
was the problem. Remember, Ronald Reagan ran on that, Katie. The government 
is the problem. Get out of the way. And now, do you think -- is this poll 
convince you that America changed their minds or do you need to see more?
PAVLICH: You combine this with Joe Biden's polling numbers on his job 
approval and yes, they're getting frustrated. But it's more about the 
philosophy that you have behind government. So, when there's a big crisis, 
people tend to think that the government should be able to handle it. 
But then they screw it up and they go too far, especially Democrats, and 
implement all these things that people say are -- you know, we could have 
done a year ago, they're not applicable now. And when you go from 15 days 
to slow the spread to a year and a half later of take a vaccine or lose 
your livelihood in your job and the ability to feed your children, I think 
people probably think you're going too far.
But it also goes to the fact that just this week, the Press Secretary Jen 
Psaki said that Joe Biden is taking advantage of this crisis to try and 
implement his $3.5 trillion agenda because they still think that people are 
in crisis mode and they want the government to handle things and take care 
of them. 
But they've proven on a lot of these things that they've screwed up, 
they've missed the mark, and they're going way too far when it comes to 
controlling people's lives a year and a half a half after this happened. 
KILMEADE: And Jesse, what they're allowing -- what they're also saying to 
us too and further in this poll is that not only do they want to be left 
alone, but the stuff that you do have your hands in, they want you to back 
off. 43 of Americans say there's too much government regulation in business 
and industry, 25 say there's too little, 30 say right amount. 
People want -- people from the deli owner, to the restaurant, to big 
business, back off. Let me try to be successful.
WATTERS: I like these numbers a lot. There was a great piece today in The 
Post. It was by Glenn Reynolds. The irrational COVID regime is driving many 
Americans to a healthy non-compliance. And they use a term called Irish 
democracy. So, Irish democracy is when the country -- 
KILMEADE: Leave without you -- go to a party and leave without saying 
goodbye. 
TARLOV: Yes.
WATTERS: That's an Irish goodbye. But when the government we don't like -- 
but we're not going to riot, we're not going to overthrow the government, 
we're just not going to comply. We're going to foot drag. You know, maybe 
we'll do a little sabotage, throw a little monkey wrench in there. 
And you look around in America and that's what -- are we wearing our masks 
here, are wearing them down below the nose, are we not wearing them all, 
right? Social distancing, OK, I'm going to the beach. I'm going to the 
football game, all right. You know what, I'm not feeling too good today, I 
think I'm going to have to call in sick. I'm sorry if your flights are 
canceled. That's where we are in this country. 
We didn't like what they did with telling us how many people we could have 
in our restaurants. They made us pay money for these plastic dividers that 
didn't even work, all right? Now, our kids have to stay home on Zoom. No, 
thank. Irish democracy.
KILMEADE: Jessica Ditto?
TARLOV: No. I'd rather talk about Irish goodbyes, actually, than Irish 
democracy. So, something that's interesting about poll questions like this 
is that they're really broad, right? So, would you -- do you want less 
government in your life, yes or no? 
But if you go to the individual issues, there are a lot of places where 
Americans, the overwhelming majorities actually do want government in their 
lives. Like, you have polls from the Kaiser Family Foundation that even 
show a majority of Republicans want a public option for instance. They want 
expansion of Medicare. You have majorities of Americans that are for 
vaccine mandates. You have people who are pro-masking, et cetera. 
So, you have to be careful about just saying this means you know Joe Biden 
has had a terribly, you know, six months in office and they're turning 
against the idea of big government. It's the individual policies that 
count. Regulation has always been a place where people want the red tape 
cut. But they do want the government, the federal government to help with 
climate change for instance.
PAVLICH: But when you ask the follow-up question -- 
KILMEADE: Not me. 
PAVLICH: Who is paying for it or should people lose their job for forced 
vaccination, the answer is no. 
KILMEADE: Yes.
TARLOV: Well, but no one -- 
KILMEADE: Even though thousands have lost their jobs.
WATTERS: It's how you raise the question, we're on to your pollsters, 
Jessica. 
KILMEADE: All right, meanwhile -- what camera should I say this?
TARLOV: That one.
KILMEADE: I only have five words. "THE FASTEST" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
TARLOV: Welcome back. It's time for "THE FASTEST." First up, the Queen is 
going sober. The 95-year-old monarch ordered to limit drinking on the 
advice of Royal doctors according to a new report to ensure she stays as 
healthy as possible. Her Majesty's go-to alcoholic beverage apparently a 
dry martini. She's also believed to enjoy a glass of sweet wine with dinner 
and glass of champagne before bed.
So, Kate, we were laughing about this. Like, she made it to 95. What is the 
problem with whatever she's been doing? 
PAVLICH: Yes. Like, I think she's doing just fine.
TARLOV: She's doing great. 
PAVLICH: They're saying she needs to limit it for her fall festivities and 
for next summer, but it looks like her diet is working pretty well for her, 
so you know, if she wants to, great. But if I were her, I'd probably be 
like, I'm 95, I'll do what I want. 
TARLOV: And I'm the queen.
KILMEADE: And I'm the queen. Yes, on top of that, if I'm the queen and I'm 
95, I'm taking it one season at a time. Don't even plan for the fall, OK. 
The other thing is I get the sense that there's something -- it's a bigger 
problem. I think she's drinking a lot. 
TARLOV: What? Stop it. 
KILMEADE: And that's why -- 
TARLOV: Are you accusing the queen of day drinking?
KILMEADE: Put it this way. There was a report in the 90s that she was 
drinking a lot and she dialed the back. She would have four drinks at 
lunch. And -- 
BREAM: No. 
KILMEADE: Yes, look it up. We don't have time now. 
WATTERS: You drink too much with Prince Andrew.
PAVLICH: Again, she's 95. 
WATTERS: Meghan Markle, you're like, you know, six drinks in every night. 
BREAM: It might drive you to it. 
TARLOV: Have you heard about the drunk queen theory? 
BREAM: I have not, but here's my thing. She's been shepherding and guiding 
this country since like, World War II. 
TARLOV: Yes. 
BREAM: And she's lost her husband. Like, she's going through a lot. I say, 
let her do -- like, is she getting ready for the crossfit games or like 
detoxing, I don't know. My grandma Nell lived to be 102. And towards the 
end of her life, she ate a pound -- those one-pound chocolate bars. Like, 
every day she ate one. I am looking forward to just letting it all blow out 
the older that I get. So, no. Let the queen do what she wants. 
TARLOV: What will you be indulging in when you hit 95, Jesse?
WATTERS: I think I'll be taking up smoking. 
TARLOV: That's when you'll finally do it? OK, moving on. Up next, holograms 
are no longer the talk of science fiction. A company selling a seven-foot 
tall booth into which you can beam a 3d image of yourself anywhere in the 
world and only cost a cool $100,000. 
Demonstrably less than going to space, but what do you think, Shannon? Are 
you going to program yourself -- 
BREAM: I will say, do it, whatever. I'm not going to try to stop you. But 
there's too little human interaction. We're just like beaming ourselves 
everywhere like Star Trek. I hate that. I like seeing people and I want it 
to come back. I don't want us to move further apart and, you know, 
isolated. I want us to be together. 
TARLOV: OK.
PAVLICH: This is how Jesse is going to save the world. 
BREAM: He already did. 
PAVLICH: We're just going to beam him all over the place.
WATTERS: I have an idea. Right. So, if someone wants to book me for a 
speech in California, I don't have to fly there anymore. I just project a 
hologram of Jesse to California and I get paid the same amount. 
PAVLICH: Good for you.
TARLOV: I don't think you get paid the same amount.
WATTERS: There's a hologram discount?
TARLOV: I mean -- 
BREAM: There is a remote discount, right? You don't get to be able to shake 
your pants. 
WATTERS: They need -- they need to touch me and -- 
BREAM: Right, selfies with you. 
TARLOV: And see you doing your -- like your little -- 
WATTERS: All right, I'll go. 
KILMEADE: I thought holograms were great when you're dead. 
PAVLICH: That's right. 
TARLOV: Like for Whitney.
KILMEADE: I know when you put those glasses on, you can project yourself on 
stage at a major concert and things like that. I did not know you could do 
the reverse. You could actually not have glasses and put yourself 
somewhere. And do you experience being in that place?
Like, if they put me in Russia, will I see and interact with Russians?
WATTERS: You don't actually have to come to work early in the morning. You 
could just do "FOX AND FRIENDS" from your house. 
KILMEADE: Right. I don't even need a remote studio.
BREAM: With Rocky and Polo.
KILMEADE: With my dogs, absolutely. 
TARLOV: A nice addition to the couch, a hologram Brian in the morning. 
Last up, nostalgia is calling. Nokia is going to release a new version of 
its classic brick phone that was all the rage two decades ago. Does anyone 
here remember this? I had it. 
BREAM: Oh, yes. 
WATTERS: You had it? Yes, we had. I thought they were talking about the big 
fat phone. 
BREAM: Right. 
KILMEADE: The bag?
BREAM: Like, what was -- 
KILMEADE: They come with the bags. 
WATTERS: They come with the bags?
KILMEADE: Yes. 
BREAM: Have you seen the movie where Michael Douglas is out on the beach 
and he's doing it and he's like holding a toaster to his head while he's 
doing it. 
WATTERS: That's what I thought. 
BREAM: But here's the thing. They said you can go without a charge for 
three weeks. So, I'm like, sign me up.
WATTERS: Why does the iPhone have that?
BREAM: I don't know. 
TARLOV: Well, because they want you buy a new one all the time. 
BREAM: Because they want you to buy a new. 
TARLOV: And a new charger. 
WATTERS: Feedback. We'll get on that. 
BREAM: And a new charger. 
WATTERS: Steve Apple, get on that.
TARLOV: Steve Apple?
KILMEADE: Steve Jobs.
PAVLICH: Steve Jobs. 
WATTERS: It's Trump who called him Steve Apple. 
TARLOV: Oh, right. 
KILMEADE: Tim Apple.
WATTERS: Tim Apple. 
TARLOV: Whatever. But it was cool because you could change the skin on it.
PAVLICH: Yes.
TARLOV: Like, I had different -- that was the big exciting thing, that you 
could get -- 
BREAM: Like those watches. 
PAVLICH: And they had the best -- 
BREAM: You could do different things.
PAVLICH: They're the best games. 
TARLOV: Yes, Snake. 
PAVLICH: You could play that for three weeks, apparently, on that phone. 
BREAM: Yes, with no charge. I love it.
PAVLICH: Yes. 
BREAM: The charge thing is what convinced me.
WATTERS: What about the flip phone where it like -- the Motorola. 
BREAM: The Motorola is so -- 
WATTERS: With those skinny antenna. 
BREAM: It is. 
TARLOV: Yes.
WATTERS: That was pretty slick.
TARLOV: People -- I see that around still.
WATTERS: You do? 
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: Like, drug dealers or something. 
TARLOV: Yes, I hang out with a lot of drug dealers. 
KILMEADE: And they (INAUDIBLE) 
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: It's called a burner. 
BREAM: It's called a burner phone. 
KILMEADE: They run like -- run like there's no tomorrow. 
TARLOV: OK. Like The Wire. OK, "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: It's time for "ONE MORE THING." Jessica. 
TARLOV: OK, so, it's a sad day here at Fox. One of the producers of THE 
FIVE, Sabrina, it's her last day with the team. Here's some cute photos of 
her. We wish you all the best luck in your new adventure. Thanks for 
everything over the years. I think she's been here a total of eight years 
and a fine member of the Fox family.
WATTERS: Fine member. 
PAVLICH: She's got great outfits, great fashion. 
TARLOV: Yes.
WATTERS: Sabrina, we are going to miss you. And we love you. And I'm not 
afraid to say it. 
All right, the third book for the Fox News book imprint All American 
Christmas hits the shelves Tuesday, November 16. You can pre-order it now 
at FoxNewsBooks.com or wherever books are sold. I love that phrase, 
wherever books are sold. Perfect Christmas gift this season, so get your 
friends and family, supply chain issues be damn. 
Rachel Campos Duffy and Sean Duffy, I guess they're married, this book's 
going to featured inside look at how the family of 11 celebrates the 
holidays. And I actually wrote a chapter. 
BREAM: Me too. 
WATTERS: Several of these people wrote a chapter at this table. 
TARLOV: I didn't. No one asked me. 
WATTERS: Well, we'll get around to you next book. Also, tonight, I'm going 
to be hosting "FOX NEWS PRIMETIME" and we have a murderer's row here, Sean 
Hannity, Bret Baier, Tomi Lahren, Emily Compagno, and Steve Hilton. So, 
7:00. Also, "WATTERS' WORLD" this weekend, I hit the streets and I asked 
about Kamala Harris. You'd be surprised. People don't even know who she is. 
So, make sure to watch that. 
BREAM: Were you down at the border asking or were you -- 
WATTERS: I was not the border. Neither was she.
BREAM: OK, by the way, I have a secret Christmas punch recipe that's in 
that book. It took me 25 years of being in the Bream family to get it. 
WATTERS: Now, I'm definitely buying it. 
BREAM: So now, you definitely want to get it. OK, I want to tell you about 
Bobby Carson. He is a 95-year-old World War II veteran. Check him out. He's 
part of the Corvette club where he lives. He is a huge fan of the car. But 
he found out he was way down on the waiting list for this new car that he 
wanted to get.
Now, the people in the club found out and they're like, no way we're 
getting Bobby moved up. His friends found out he wanted this all-new mid-
engine Stingray. They got him bumped up. They made all kinds of calls, 
pulled all kinds of favors, and they got the car for him.
He's been honored by the gesture. He says the new Corvette is the greatest 
car he has ever driven. 95-year-old World War II Vet Bobby Carson, thank 
you for your service. And I love that your friends stepped up and made sure 
that you got this. 
WATTERS: Vet on a Corvette. Brian Kilmeade, you're next. 
KILMEADE: All right, it's a complex one. I could not believe what Grif has 
been doing at the border in Panama. The best stand-up I have seen is him on 
this raft reliving what they're doing every day to get to our country going 
through Panama, to Costa Rica, up to Mexico, and then getting here. I 
thought it was the best stand-up I've ever seen.
WATTERS: It's the Venice of Central America. 
KILMEADE: Absolutely. Then I was introduced to Victor Williams. Watch 
Victor Williams on Local News 4.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VICTOR WILLIAMS, REPORTER, LOCAL NEWS 4: And so, Mr. Premium is going to be 
out of here every single Monday and Wednesday skateboarding with everyone 
and trying his best to basically show them exactly what to do. Victor 
Williams, Local 4. 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Victor, you are so cool. 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BREAM: Dang.
PAVLICH: No helmet. 
BREAM: What?
KILMEADE: How unbelievable is that? Yes, I mean, that is awesome. So, I 
just appreciate that he kept -- he wasn't even winded and kept it going, 
and he wowed his anchors. 
BREAM: Nice. 
KILMEADE: Hey, by the way, November 2rd, circle your calendar. The 
President and the Freedom Fighter will be available. If you want to see me 
live on stage, and you guys get a chance to see me -- they don't know how 
special it is, November 7th, Charleston, West Virginia, Orlando, Florida, 
and then in Clearwater. We got till May for Asbury Park. And just go to 
BrianKilmeade.com. Click on for tickets, and then hopefully to see you in 
person. 
PAVLICH: Oh, your special. 
KILMEADE: We're talking about the war on history. 
WATTERS: Wow. And it's sold out in Ponte Vedra. 
KILMEADE: Yes.
WATTERS: Not bad, Kilmeade. All right, you're up.
PAVLICH: All right, there is something in the water in Arizona. An Arizona 
couple's home is full of joy after adding a very big addition to their 
family. Last Monday Cary Patonai -- I think that's how you say her name -- 
delivered her son Finley via C Section, and this is why Finnley made his 
grand debut weighing 14 pounds and one ounce and measured 24 inches long.
WATTERS: 14 pounds. 
PAVLICH: The average newborn is around half that number. Finnley was born 
so they had to scrap his original homecoming outfit and get him a onesie 
for a baby six to nine months old. Finnley has two older brothers who were 
born at eight and a half pounds and 11.1 pounds respectively.
So, I'd say they're building a football team there. And once they get 
older, make sure they go to the University of Arizona not -- 
TARLOV: Literally my worst nightmare, by the way, that there's a 14-pound 
item in there. 
PAVLICH: I told the story just for you. 
WATTERS: 14 pounds. 
BREAM: I haven't tell you, my husband was -- 
PAVLICH: It's very cute. 
KILMEADE: (INAUDIBLE) that's for kindergarten. 
TARLOV: Your husband was -- 
BREAM: My husband was the last of six. He was 15 pounds. 
TARLOV: What?
WATTERS: 15?
KILMEADE: I want to see the records on that. 
PAVLICH: Wow. 
BREAM: Yes, he's like -- 
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: I want to see the long-form birth certificate. 
BREAM: This baby -- I feel like we have one with the seal and everything. 
This baby, I feel like he did the COVID thing. Like, he just ate. We all 
gain weight, the baby. 
PAVLICH: Good for the (INAUDIBLE). Good job, Cary.
KILMEADE: Jesse was born in Hawaii, so you know -- 
WATTERS: Yes, we're going to look into that. That's it for us. We'll see 
you guys back here on Monday. Have a great weekend, everybody. 
Content and Programming Copyright 2021 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL 
RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2021 VIQ Media Transcription, Inc.  All 
materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not 
be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast 
without the prior written permission of VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. You 
may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from 
copies of the content.