Tucker: Mainstream media enraged by Trump's positive COVID message
'Tucker Carlson Tonight' host slams the media over response to the president's handling of his illness
NEW
You can now listen to Fox News articles!
This is a rush transcript from “Tucker Carlson Tonight" October 6, 2020. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.
TUCKER CARLSON, FOX NEWS HOST:  Good evening and welcome to TUCKER CARLSON TONIGHT. 
Donald Trump got the coronavirus last week. On Saturday, some of his aides suggested in the background that he could die from it. The media happily seconded that diagnosis. 
Trump they informed us has a condition known as clinical obesity -- obesity, whatever. 
It sounds significantly worse than cancer and far more unattractive. So for a time, it looked like curtains for Big Orange; and then an amazing reversal, Trump strode out of the hospital thumbs in the air back from the grave tweeting like a savage. 
Today, he was at his desk in the White House. "New Yorker" subscribers may never get over the shock of it all. To add to their pain and confusion and bewilderment, Donald Trump released this video last night. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I learned so much about coronavirus, and one thing that's for certain, don't let it dominate you.
Don't be afraid of it. 
You're going to beat it. We have the best medical equipment. We have the best medicines. 
Don't let it dominate. Don't let it take over your lives. Don't let that happen. We are the greatest country in the world. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  "Feeling really good," the President tweeted later. "Don't be afraid of COVID. Don't let it dominate your life. We have developed under the Trump administration some really great drugs and knowledge," end quote. 
Well, it was self-promotional, of course, but honestly, it's hard to think of a better or more positive message. Take Trump out of it. Yes, the coronavirus is obviously deadly. It has killed hundreds of thousands of people in this country, most of them are old and sick. 
But the President himself is old, not to mention clinically obese, whatever that is, and yet, he survived. He appears to be in a great mood as people who cheat death often are. Of course, he received great medical care. He is the President. 
But there was no magic involved in the treatment he received. Every drug Donald Trump took is available to the rest of us if and when we get sick.
And that ought to gives us hope. Trump survived, so can we. 
It doesn't mean we should ignore the coronavirus or behave recklessly, obviously. But it does suggest we don't have to live in a permanent state of terror. "Don't let it dominate your life," Trump said. That's advice you'd give your own children. 
But for the people whose power derives from our fear, it was a threat. They need you to be afraid, perpetually, otherwise you won't obey them. 
So of course, they were enraged by what Trump said. Watch. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
CLAIRE MCCASKILL, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST:  Of course, you should be afraid of COVID, and how disrespectful that is. 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And now we see this tweet, which is heartless. 
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST:  Don't be afraid of COVID. Don't let it control your life. You don't have to let it control your life, man, because you live in the White House. 
GLORIA BORGER, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST:  It is insulting to every American who wears a mask, who has been laid off as a result of COVID. 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST:  Everyone should be afraid of COVID. Look at what it has already done. 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  I am flabbergasted by that and honestly, I cannot stop thinking about it. 
LAWRENCE O'DONNELL, MSNBC HOST:  Donald Trump is telling you don't be afraid of the deadly coronavirus. No one on Earth has done more to spread the Coronavirus than Donald Trump. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  You following this? Encouraging hope in your country is now quote, "heartless." Staying cheerful is an insult to the rest of us. Our leaders have an obligation to confirm our most irrational fears. That's what compassion looks like. That's what they're telling us. It's deranged. 
But it's also recognizable. It reminds you of the many ghouls in Washington who forced our military to wage pointless wars around the Middle East, but when you point out how destructive all of that has been, they whip around and accuse you of insulting the memory of our soldiers. That is the thousands of unfortunate young Americans who have died in their pointless wars. 
How do you respond to an attack like that? It's almost too irrational to rebut. That's why they use it. And that's why they're using the same strategy here. 
They wreck our economy with lockdowns. They keep our children stunted and ignorant by shutting down their schools. They drive our entire country to the brink of madness with politically motivated hysteria. But if you dare to say a word about it, if you dare to complain in any way, you are the monster. In fact, you're a killer. 
Watch this blow dried cable news wonder lose control of himself, because somebody in the CNN control room played video of Donald Trump taking off his mask. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  And the President in that Sunset Boulevard gesture, whipped his mask off in front of the American people on the nightly news last night. 
So, as a doctor whose job it is -- you know, to take it off. Please don't even put it on the screen. Please take it off because that's going to kill people. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Take it off. Don't even put it on the screen. He whipped his mask off in front of the American people. He dropped his mask. It's like pornography. 
Actually, it's worse than pornography. Pornography is fine. That's on Twitter. Pornographers are loyal donors to the Democratic Party. They're virtuous. 
This is a deeper crime than that. Taking your mask off effectively is questioning corona theology, and anyone who does that has committed an act of spiritual obscenity. 
Watch MSNBC warn its viewers to hide their children before they play video of Donald Trump talking about the virus. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
O'DONNELL:  It is a video of a very sick man with very sick ideas. 
I'm going to show you another deeply perverse statement that Donald Trump made tonight on that video and I will let him say it in his own words with his own voice, you will hear that, but with the appropriate warning. 
Viewers should know that what you're about to hear is utterly insane and dangerous. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Utterly insane and dangerous. Oh, that's spine tingling. If Kim Jong-il somehow made it with Dracula, their demonic spawn, the leering blood-slurping Incubus they created would still be less awful, less harmful to this nation than a video of Donald Trump assuring you that everything is going to be okay in the end. According to MSNBC, that's how bad it was. 
Okay. So this is what peak hysteria must look like. Cable news can't possibly get more overheated than that, you must be thinking. Oh, no. Oh, yes, it can. And CNN tried hard last night to top it. 
Now unfortunately, they are at something of a disadvantage. Their anchors aren't quite as articulate as the guys from MSNBC. The anchor you just saw went to Harvard, the CNN anchor had to settle for Yale and only because his dad was the Governor. So he doesn't have quite as many words to choose from when he wants to express his total outrage. Instead, he works blue and the naughty language lets you know just how mad he is. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN ANCHOR:  There he is. Hair blown, majestically, reshooting the scene for his own ad. I hold rallies and I tell you to ignore masks and I rip mine off as I vanquish the virus because I am a leader. Fear not COVID. What a bunch of bull [bleep]. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Whoa, naughty. That word wasn't in the prompter or anything. It just came out totally unscripted. 
Once Chris Cuomo saw Donald Trump outdoors without a mask, he just lost it.
He honestly couldn't believe a President would do something that obscene.
Infected with COVID, yet breathing the very air that circulates in our common atmosphere and in the process killing millions. 
Standing on the White House balcony, Trump was a human bio weapon, a WMD.
It was immoral. And Chris Cuomo would know precisely how immoral it was, because he has done it himself. 
This spring, Chris Cuomo got COVID. You may have noticed they did like 27 shows in a row about it. Cuomo told us he was quarantined in his basement, but let's be honest, there are only so many squats you can do in the mirror. It got boring after a while. 
So Chris Cuomo secretly left his house, took off his mask, oh, yes, ladies and gentlemen, and wandered around the Hamptons. While wandering, he promptly ran into this man who wondered what the hell Chris Cuomo was doing and asked himself, and here's what happened next. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
DAVID WHELAN, CYCLIST WHO SAW CHRIS CUOMO OUTSIDE OF HIS HOME:  And I just said, "Don't you have the coronavirus? Shouldn't you be quarantined?" And the biggest next words were, "What the hell do you know about this? What do you know about the rules?" I said, "You're not supposed to be out here."
Nobody had gloves on. Nobody had masks on. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Okay, so it turns out Chris Cuomo doesn't think he should have to wear a mask outside. And this is the point in the show where we wax outrage. He works on a rival network. We just can't believe he did that. We hate Chris Cuomo because he didn't wear a mask. We're not going to tell you that. We're going to tell you the truth. 
It's fine that Chris Cuomo didn't wear a mask outside. We're not judging him. Masks are great. They have their place. Surgeons wear masks in operating rooms. People wear masks in elevators, in crowded stores, and good for them. It probably helps. 
We've been arguing that for six months before the Surgeon General himself recommended masks. We thought, why would masks be a bad idea? So, we're not against mask; we never will be. 
But wearing a mask while you ride your bike? While you jog? When you're alone in your car? While you're walking in the woods? When you're standing on the beach? That's just insane. That's an insult to science, it's an insult to commonsense. Rules like that make people cynical. 
When you force them to do unreasonable things, they will never believe you again. 
Rules like that help no one, and yet, they are ubiquitous. In many Democratic controlled jurisdictions, masks are required outside. It is the law. You have no choice. 
Rules like that are not about public health. Rules like that are a form of obedience training. They're trying to see what they can make you do. 
They can make you do a lot, it turns out. Most of the time, we do what they tell us. We don't say anything. Partly because people like Chris Cuomo harangue us if we disobey the rules. Chris Cuomo calls us immoral for doubting the rules. 
Then in private, he whips off his mask the second he can. 
Here are pictures of Chris Cuomo this weekend, standing at a restaurant in Long Island, cigar in his hand, but no mask. Again, we don't judge Chris Cuomo. Chris Cuomo judges us. And that's the point. 
Nancy Pelosi judges us, too. Watch Pelosi tell you that you've got no choice, but to wear a mask at all times. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA):  Members in staff will be required to wear masks at all times. 
This is a mask from all over the country. I am getting these masks. 
Real men wear masks, and these masks are essentially important. 
The Chair views the failure to wear a mask as a serious breach of decorum. 
But in any case, I'm a big believer in wearing the mask and not sharing any, shall we say air, unnecessarily. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Real men wear masks. So you're wuzz if you don't wear a mask.
Wait a second, Nancy Pelosi, define man for us if you would? I thought you didn't believe in gender. You didn't believe in fixed sex. But you're not a real man if you don't wear a -- what are you even saying? 
She's not saying anything. She's just judging you, and she is lying as she does it. 
We already played you the tape of Pelosi mocking her own command, slinking around a hair salon in San Francisco with no mask. That was fine with us, by the way, but not with her. 
We also showed you Senator Dianne Feinstein of San Francisco hanging around a private air terminal at FBO without a mask after she called for a law requiring you and all commercial airline passengers to wear masks. 
So these people are hypocrites, obviously. But it's worse than that. They are self-righteous. Hypocrisy and self-righteousness are twins, they go together; one feeds the other, but both are poisonous habits of mind. 
As soon as you begin to take yourself seriously, Thomas Merton once wrote, and imagine that your virtues are important because they are yours, you become the prisoner of your own vanity. That is true. But they're not the only prisoners. 
Suddenly, all of us are prisoners of their vanity. This summer, the vapid Governor of California made a propaganda video informing his citizens of our biggest state that if they don't wear masks at all times, whether those masks help anyone or not, they're bad people. Here's part of it. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  For the sweaty faces, and the hidden smiles, the foggy glasses, and the sore ears. The determined looks, and the muffled laughs -- a simple piece of fabric makes a big statement. I care. Let's all do our part to slow the spread. Wear a mask. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  What happened to all the watchdogs who are supposed to be protecting us from state media and government propaganda? Oh, they're all nodding in assent. "A simple piece of fabric makes a big statement. I care." But what if it doesn't help anyone? Sometimes it does. Sometimes it doesn't. 
Has there ever been shallower virtue signaling? Underneath all of this is cruelty, by the way and judgment of you. 
The Democrats who hold every statewide office in California understand that for totalitarian to operate a society, they need people to cooperate. So the more people turn on each other and snitch and micromanage one another's lives, the easier their job of control will be. People without loyalty to each other are easy to command. That's the point. 
And with that in mind, the official Twitter account of the Office of California Gavin Newsom has taken a dictating, "How people chew their food." This is how we're responding to the pandemic, managing how people chew their food. 
On Saturday, Newsom's Twitter feed told us this, quote: "Going out to eat with members of your household this weekend? Don't forget to keep your mask on in between bites. Do your part to keep those around you healthy," end quote. 
What are the odds that Gavin Newsom alone in his gated estate, keeps his mask on between bites? Now, we're not bookies, but we'll tell you, roughly speaking, the odds are zero. He doesn't do that. But he judges you if you don't. 
And Newsom didn't stop there. The State of California wants you to know that seeing your friends is out of the question. Human contact itself is dangerous quote, "A solo bike ride with a mask is a safer alternative to playing basketball with your friends." That's what Newsom's office wrote last month and there are many more messages like this. If you want to wreck your afternoon read them. Orwellian doesn't begin to describe it. There's too much. 
There's so much that Maxine Waters, the Congresswoman from California can't even keep up. She has decided to ignore the commands completely. Back in July, you may remember, Waters was all for masks. In fact, she told us that Herman Cain deserved to die from coronavirus because he didn't wear a mask at a Trump rally. Herman Cain was a bad person, Maxine declared. He had it coming. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
REP. MAXINE WATERS (D-CA):  I'm going to send my condolences to the family of Herman Cain, who was a presidential candidate, who is a good friend of the President, who happened to have been at the rally in Tulsa, June 20th, with no mask on, with a group of people around him with no mask on and he is dead. He died. 
He, of course, contacted the virus as a result of his attendance and without a mask there. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Oh, he didn't wear a mask and he died. He deserved it. I mean, that's what you get when you don't wear a mask. You die. And no one mourns your passing, because you're a bad person. 
So it goes without saying that Maxine Waters takes masks seriously. Right.
Of course, she doesn't. And today we proved it. 
We talked to a man called Jason Giandomenico. He told us he saw Maxine Waters recently, and guess what she wasn't wearing? I think you know the answer. She wasn't wearing a mask. 
So he confronted her. It's all in video. Here's part of that video. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
JASON GIANDOMENICO, CONFRONTED REP. MAXINE WATERS FOR NOT WEARING MASK: 
And you're thinking about COVID. I don't even see you guys putting your mask on. I see your aides have masks on. 
WATERS:  I am just coming out of here and my mask in both of these places. 
GIANDOMENICO:  But you've got to have your mask on, right? 
WATERS:  Yes, that's right. That's right. 
GIANDOMENICA:  Right, right. 
WATERS:  That's right. That's right. We've got our mask. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Yes, that's right. And I'll have my mask on. Not a big deal. It's not like I'm Herman Cain or something. We're not thinking through the message behind all of this or its consequences. Democrats are framing total and unthinking obedience to their policies, which are haphazard, irrational, and not rooted in science. 
They are framing obedience to these things as a matter of morality, and the media is totally fine with that. They don't even care when the people who make the rules ignore them. Only the rest of us are evil when we disobey. 
How about the Governor of Virginia, Ralph Northam? Ralph Northam loves masks. Ralph Northam has been wearing masks long before they were fashionable. 
Thirty years ago when almost nobody thought to wear a face covering, Ralph Northam was concerned enough about public health that he put on a hood.
That's how concerned he was. Of course, he's a doctor, a man of science. A mere mask isn't enough. He wore a hood with little eyes cut out of it. 
As Governor, Northam made it a crime in the Commonwealth of Virginia not to wear a mask. In May, Northam demanded that everyone wear a face covering in public. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
GOV. RALPH NORTHAM (D-VA):  And wear a face covering in public. We know that when most people wear mask that goes a long way toward reducing the spread of the disease. As I have said before, wearing a mask could literally save someone else's life. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Caught wearing a Klan hood. You've got to say he leaned into it though. Now everyone has to. 
Amazingly or maybe it's not so amazing, a day after saying that, Northam appeared in public in Virginia Beach, Virginia with, guess what? No mask.
Guess what the media said? Virtually nothing. No one said Ralph Northam had it coming when in the end, he got the coronavirus. 
Apparently, he wasn't a good enough person to avoid the disease. That's really the message so he is sick now just like Donald Trump. That's how it works, right? 
This is a medieval standard that we're suddenly applying. This isn't science. This is medieval superstition. It was very common. Six hundred years ago, in the Middle Ages, ordinary criminals underwent what was called a trial by ordeal. 
They didn't sit before a jury. No. The accused were forced to plunge their hands into boiling water or walk barefoot across glowing metal ploughshares or they had molten lead poured on their chests. Why? To find out whether they did it or not. If they died after being tortured, they were guilty. If they survived the torture, they were innocent. 
For hundreds of years, this was the standard in Europe. Health equaled virtue. Illness equaled sin. All of a sudden, we are returning to that standard. He is sick, therefore he is bad. Where is this going? How long before we start lecturing cancer patients for their tumors? How long before we start blaming people with Alzheimer's for their dementia? That could be coming sooner than we think. 
At MSNBC, one anchor was enraged when someone suggested the left hasn't been consistent on masks. He wrote this, quote: "The most humane and reasonable way to deal with all of these people, if we survive this, is some kind of truth and reconciliation commission." Ha? Sounds like a joke, but it wasn't. Thousands of people liked that post, "A truth and reconciliation commission," if we survive COVID, for the deniers. They'll get what they deserve. 
It's an inquisition. That's what they're calling for. As with any inquisition the goal isn't truth or justice, needless to say, it is power. 
Put on your mask in between bites as you sit alone at the dinner table and there won't be any problems. Otherwise, there will be. 
Well, if you've watched the show recently, you saw that we interviewed a Chinese virologist called Dr. Li-Meng Yan. She just told us that China deliberately created the coronavirus in a lab. That's the claim she made, she just published a paper backing up that claim. 
Now her mother has been arrested in China. That doctor, Li-Meng Yan joins us after the break for an update on what happened. We will be right back. 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
CARLSON:  Last month on the show, we had an amazing interview. We talked to a Chinese virologist called Dr. Li-Meng Yan. She told us that the Chinese government created the coronavirus in a lab in Wuhan. She said the government she believes released it on purpose. 
She co-authored a paper explaining her findings. Now, it's an amazing claim. And you'd think that our media would want to get to the bottom of this pandemic, which has completely upended our country, but instead they ignored her claims and fact checkers in Silicon Valley immediately censored it. 
Now authorities in China reportedly have arrested Li-Meng Yan's mother, apparently in retribution for what she has said, so we wanted to speak to the doctor again, and she joins us now. Li-Meng Yan, thanks so much for coming on. 
DR. LI-MENG YAN, VIROLOGIST:  Good evening, Tucker. 
CARLSON:  And I'm sorry to hear about your mother. Please, tell us what you can about where she is and what's happened. 
YAN:  First, I want to thank everyone who cares about my family. I didn't mention it before. But now, it's the first time I want to tell people that, this is not the first time my mom and my other family member get arrested by the Chinese Communist Party. 
As I know, also, I cut off most of connection with my family directly. This is the fourth time, my mom, 63 years old teacher got arrested by Chinese Communist Party. 
I'm the only child in my family. My mom has done nothing wrong. The only thing they arrest my mom and send her to Beijing is because I tell the truth of COVID-19, which Chinese government feel angry about. What they have done is try to make me silent. 
For our foreign audience, this may be difficult to understand. But it is commonsense for our Chinese people in our daily life, Chinese Communist Party can use no reason to arrest and even kill anyone, just because you make them unhappy or you tried to reveal the truth. 
You can say that for Mr. President these days, so he got COVID-19, and if you see the media from China, you will see the Chinese Communist Party and they brainwashed people. They are celebrating this, and not only for Mr.
President, also for his family for his grand case, they want to see them even passed away of the COVID-19. 
So that is the truth of this Chinese Communist Party government, and that's why from beginning, I want take my life risk and also my family's life risk to come to U.S. to tell people the truth about COVID-19. 
CARLSON:  You are a physician. You're a scientist. You're a researcher.
You've presented your findings, you've published them in two different papers and for doing that your family has been arrested. Has any group in the United States, scientific group -- the so-called scientific community at N.I.H., C.D.C., World Health Organization, internationally, A.M.A., has anyone issued a statement in support of your right to present your research without being punished for it? 
YAN:  First, I want to clarify that this time my mom get arrested is because I went to FOX News last time for Mr. Lou Dobbs and also your interview. They are angry. 
And the other thing is for my publication, the first one, and even the next one actually already previewed by the people, the senior people and the top experts from U.S. government before published. I never said -- and they gave the positive feedback and the comments seen by that. 
But I didn't get a public statement supporting it from any this kind of big organization representative of scientific work, including W.H.O., N.I.H., C.D.C., or others. And actually, I got out of lies and the misinformation attacking me from some scientists. 
CARLSON:  Yes, I just want that to be really clear to our viewers. So what we're watching is the death of free inquiry of science itself. We're not endorsing your findings. They are in the public, for people to assess. They are in English. Your papers or online. 
Anyone can read them, but rather than debate them, we're trying to squelch them and our scientific community is standing back and watching it happen. 
You are a brave person, Doctor, I appreciate your coming on the show. And Godspeed to your family and to you I hope -- I hope you're safe. Thank you. 
YAN:  Thank you. I will publish the next scientific report very soon. Thank you. 
CARLSON:  Good, and we'll be watching. 
One update to a story we did in June, rioters from Black Lives Matter stormed onto Mark and Patricia McCloskey's property in St. Louis. The rioters broke their gait, and the McCloskeys say threatened their lives. 
There's a major development tonight in this story. Judge Jeanine joins us to explain what it is. That's next. 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
CARLSON:  We've got a FOX News alert for you. 
There are developments in the story that we've been playing out for quite some time of the St. Louis couple, Mark and Patricia McCloskey in June, you'll remember. 
Hundreds of BLM activists stormed onto their property while they were having dinner. The McCloskeys say they threaten their lives. 
Well today, a grand jury in St. Louis indicted the McCloskeys, not the mob, the McCloskeys on charges of unlawful use of a weapon, which they brandished and tampering with evidence. McCloskeys' attorney is accusing prosecutors of tampering with the evidence, one of the McCloskeys' weapons in order to support those charges. 
What exactly is going on here? It seems like upside down world. 
Jeanine Pirro has been following the story since the beginning. She is the host, of course, of "Justice with Judge Jeanine." The author of the book, "Don't Lie to Me: And Stop Trying to Steal Our Freedom." She joins us tonight. 
Judge, thanks for coming on. So you'd think if a group of people come onto your property and threaten your life, they'd be the ones indicted. But the McCloskeys were indicted. How does that work? 
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, JUSTICE WITH JUDGE JEANINE:  As you say, not in this upside down world. Look, Tucker, this is a political prosecution brought by a renegade prosecutor funded with $200,000.00 from a Soros-pack, who decides that she is going to charge two people who are on their own property in their own home with the unlawful use of a weapon and tampering for which they face up to four years in jail, as well as loss of their licenses to practice law, both of them being attorneys. 
And you know, if you can just imagine, Tucker, that it is Sunday afternoon or Sunday evening, you're about to have a barbecue with your wife, and then you hear a crowd and all of a sudden the security gate to your area is knocked down, you call 911. There's no response. 
You call the police. There's no response. The security guard is nowhere to be found, you know, what are you going to do? There is a column of people, not a few protesters, a column of people, and my source tells me who has access to the beginning of this protest by these so-called peaceful protesters, and they're everything but that, that they were brandishing weapons themselves, that they were armed, that they were threatening the family. 
But of course, what the media goes through is only that part that implicates in some way, the McCloskeys, but make no mistake, these people were threatening to burn the home, to move into the home, to kill the McCloskeys. They had no other choice and they had the right to defend themselves. 
And in the end, based upon what happened here, the indictment of these two, it's a total shock and a violation, I think of their constitutional rights.
It's backwards. 
CARLSON:  But the Soros-backed prosecutor is sending a very clear message to the rest of us, which is submit. You don't have a right to defend yourself or your property from the mob. That's what they're telling the country. 
PIRRO:  Yes. And they're telling the country that you protesters can do whatever you want. You can burn things down. You'll get away with it, because we're not going to prosecute you that. We are finding prosecutors who are pro-criminal and anti-law enforcement and that is an upside down world. 
CARLSON:  Yes. Where is this going? We should all think about that. Judge Jeanine, great to see you tonight. Thank you so much. 
PIRRO:  Thank you. 
CARLSON:  Well, we've learned a lot about Kamala Harris recently. We're also learning more about what Obama administration and Joe Biden knew about the Russia collusion hoax that dominated really the President's first term and our media for three years. 
Former C.I.A. Director, John Brennan's handwritten notes were declassified today. Pretty remarkable that he wrote down what he did. We'll tell you what he wrote down after the break. 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Our Intelligence Community just came out and said in the last few days that the Kremlin, meaning Putin and the Russian government are directing the attacks, the hacking on American accounts to influence our election. 
We have never in the history of our country, been in a situation where an adversary, a foreign power is working so hard to influence the outcome of the election. And believe me, they're not doing it to get me elected. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  That was Hillary Clinton in 2016. They've never stopped talking like that. Russia, they are undermining our democracy -- as China takes over the world. 
Back then, it was part of Hillary's strategy to smear Donald Trump as a Russian agent, and of course, as you well know, it worked. Today we will learn much more about how American Intelligence officials knew about the plan at the time and participated in it to some extent. 
The Director of National Intelligence now, John Ratcliffe has declassified handwritten notes from former C.I.A. Director, John Brennan, who is a leftist and a partisan. The notes discuss Intelligence that Hillary Clinton had approved a proposal from quote, "one of her foreign policy advisers" to vilify Donald Trump by stirring up a scandal claiming interference by the Russian Security Service. 
Just a few minutes ago, on Twitter, the President tweeted that he has, quote, " ... authorized the total declassification of any and all documents pertaining to the Russia hoax." Why did he do that two years ago? 
But he is doing it now, and what will we learn about what Joe Biden knew about all of this? 
Sean Davis is the co-founder of "The Federalist." We're happy to have him on tonight to untangle this web. Sean, thanks a lot for coming on. So what have we learned in this new tranche of documents? 
SEAN DAVIS, CO-FOUNDER, "THE FEDERALIST":  Right, so we learned that the knowledge of what Hillary's campaign was doing went to the highest levels of the U.S. government. It wasn't just at the F.B.I., the C.I.A. knew it.
The C.I.A. Director knew it. The President of the United States was briefed on it in the Oval Office, and the Russians knew it. 
And that's important because as the F.B.I. was pretending to look into whether Trump was colluding with the Russians, our own Intelligence Services knew that Russia was aware of Clinton's plans and therefore able and possibly likely to start injecting disinformation of their own into her entire process, which is what actually happened. 
CARLSON:  I mean, it seems like if our Intel agencies knew this, and then sat and passively in some cases actively participated in this endless hoax for three years, then, I mean, they were undermining democracy, and they should be punished for that, and none of them have been, they haven't even been unmasked. I mean, what the hell? 
DAVIS:  You're exactly right. I mean, this wasn't just some sort of like silly game that had no real consequences or implications. These people use this to cast doubt on our elections. 
You know, they talk about the integrity of our democracy, they were the ones crapping all over it. And after Trump was inaugurated, they went and hijacked the presidency, they tried to cripple it. They put in this completely bogus Special Counsel based on false pretenses to cripple the administration heading right to the 2018 election. 
And the problem is that if nobody is made to pay for this, if nobody goes to prison, it's going to happen again. And when it happens again, because these people are going to be completely emboldened by the lack of accountability, it will be far worse, even though that may be hard to imagine. 
CARLSON:  Exactly. 
DAVIS:  Far worse than what they did in 2016, which itself was criminal. 
CARLSON:  It's not even about Trump. It's about the country. You want to live in a place where the C.I.A. operates independently from the President?
Against the favorite party's political enemies? I mean, I can't imagine anything more third world. And what about the current C.I.A. Director? What did she know about all of this? We should find out. 
I hope you'll come back. Sean Davis, I wish we had more time. There's too much news. But I appreciate your explaining all of that. 
DAVIS:  Thank you. 
CARLSON:  Speaking of news, the former First Lady Michelle Obama, who really doesn't like politics, she wants you to know, released a long, totally overheated political video today. She wants America to know she is very disappointed in our country because it's racist. Why a rich lady is so mad? That's part of the question. There are others. We'll get reaction to all this from Candace Owens, next. 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
CARLSON:  If you were awake this summer, conscious at all and watched videos from Kenosha or Minneapolis or Portland or Seattle, you might have formed the impression that the rioters you saw on the street were from the left, the ones with BLM tattoos on their necks, all the Joe Biden voters out there -- but Michelle Obama wants you to know, don't believe your lying eyes. 
The former First Lady released a 24-minute video today, telling you if you came to the conclusion the left was rioting, you're racist. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
MICHELLE OBAMA, FORMER FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED STATES:  Only a tiny fraction of demonstrations have had any violence at all. So what the President is doing is once again, patently false. It's morally wrong. And yes, it is racist. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Yes, racist. Here in Martha's Vineyard, in our $12 million house, things are fine. Edgar Town is not on fire. Oh, bluff seems totally peaceful. Soul Cycle is open. Like what's the problem? 
You'll notice if you watch the video, and you should, Michelle Obama does not condemn the violence. She just pretends it didn't really happen. So what is going on in our country according to Michelle Obama? Well, apparently, gangs of white supremacist are on the loose. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
M. OBAMA:  Imagine how it feels to wake up every day and do your very best to uphold the values that this country claims to hold dear: truth, honor, decency. Only to have those efforts met by scorn not just by your fellow citizens, but by a sitting President, to walk around your own country scared that someone's unjustified fear of you could put you in harm's way. 
A racial slur from a passing car. A job promotion that never comes. A routine traffic stop gone wrong. Maybe a knee to the neck. 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
CARLSON:  Why do left-wing rich ladies gets so breathy when they make political videos? And why are they also angry? Why are the rich ladies so angry? Who is oppressing all the millionaires? Someone is. 
Candace Owens may know the answer. She is the author of "Blackout: How Black America can make a Second Escape from the Democratic Plantation." She joins us tonight. 
Candace, thanks so much for coming on. I noticed there are a lot of oppressed and angry rich ladies out there. Who is oppressing them? 
CANDACE OWENS, AUTHOR, "BLACKOUT":  I cannot answer that question for, unfortunately. But what I can say is that Michelle Obama today, she destroyed whatever good was left of Obama's legacy -- Barack Obama's legacy today with this video. 
It is breathtaking because it's so polar opposite from the Barack Obama that we saw when he was running for election in 2008. And I remember -- I remember seeing that Barack Obama, a Barack Obama who was asked, baited wants to say if you do not win this election, Senator, do you think it's because America isn't ready? The implication being that America was not ready yet for a black President. 
CARLSON:  I remember that? I remember when he was asked that. 
OWENS:  Right. 
CARLSON:  Yes. 
OWENS:  And you remember what he said, Tucker. He said, you know what, if I don't win, no. It's because I failed to deliver on a vision and a promise that Americans could believe it, it was an incredibly courageous response. 
CARLSON:  Yes, it was. I agree with that. 
OWENS:  That I believe, won him the election, because he believed in America. And he basically said to Americans that day, even if I don't win, I still believe in America. It's not because of the color of my skin. 
Michelle Obama did the exact opposite. She looked at America in a 25-minute video, and she said to Americans, if you don't vote the way that I tell you to vote, it's because you're a backward. It's because you're wrong. It's because this country is inherently wrong and racist.
I can think of no greater way to completely destroy everything that Barack Obama accomplished in 2008, and it's actually quite sad. 
CARLSON:  What -- it's -- I couldn't agree with you more. I hadn't thought of that. I think it's a really smart point. I wonder why they're doing it.
So Biden is way ahead in the polls. I'm just being honest, he is. He is more ahead than Hillary was in 2016. 
So on some level, you think, well, they probably don't need to do this. Why is she -- she clearly means it or she wouldn't do it. Why do you think she is doing it? 
OWENS:  You know, I really have always thought that the Obamas unfortunately, don't have much control over their own life and their own narrative. You know, they took a lot of money to get into the White House, owe a lot of people favors, and I really view them as D.N.C. operatives at this point. 
And it's sad to see because they really could have used this moment to bring the country together, and I think Barack Obama definitely tried that in his COVID-19 messaging. But Michelle Obama has gone an entirely different route. And quite frankly, she is really bad at acting. This was theatrical. 
CARLSON:  I know. 
OWENS:  It was cringe worthy and it was uncomfortable to watch. 
CARLSON:  I completely agree. This, of all moments, is a moment where you would like someone to say, let's just put down our differences. Here are the things that we have in common, let's focus on them. And what a shame that they're not doing this. 
She has a lot of authority, actually. She is very popular, not with me, but with most people. She is very popular. I wish she had done that. 
OWENS:  You know, I actually think this was really her basket of deplorables moment, and I think this is going to have the exact opposite desired effect. 
You can't just keep telling Americans that they are backwards and that they are wrong. These are the Americans, Michelle, if you're watching tonight, these are the Americans that voted your husband into office twice. 
America is not a racist country. Do we have pockets of racism? Sure. But that is not the interpretation of our country as a whole. 
CARLSON:  That's right. Candace Owens, every time you're on, you say something I hadn't thought of that I appreciate, so thank you. 
OWENS:  Thank you. 
CARLSON:  We'll be back tomorrow, 8:00 p.m., the show that is the sworn enemy of lying, pomposity, smugness and groupthink. 
VP debate tomorrow. Sean Hannity now. 
Content and Programming Copyright 2020 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2020 ASC Services II Media, LLC.  All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.