Summary:Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal from the great state of Washington is interviewed. A hacker breached a Florida water treatment plant and changed chemical levels. And today, the county sheriff announced that the water treatment facility on Friday was unlawfully hacked. Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: That`s it ALL IN on this Monday."THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" start right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thank you, my friend. Much appreciated.And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. Happy to have you here.We have a lot to get to tonight. The leader of the progressive caucus is here tonight, Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal. She`s going to be here to talk about basically just how much help the American people are going to get from the COVID relief bill. The fight is on, frankly, among Democrats right now as to just how big they`re going go in terms of trying to help people.Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal holds a lot of cards in that fight as chair of the progressive caucus. We`re going to hear in a second about her strategy and her thinking and why she and her colleagues are really insisting that the COVID relief bill is among other things the right place and the right time and the right way to push a raise in the minimum wage.The minimum wage has not gone up in this country in 12 years. President Biden says he`s committed to raising the minimum wage, but he`s publicly raised doubts if it can be done as part of the COVID relief bill that they`re about to pass in Congress. This, of course, is a super consequential issue for the economy as a whole, but more importantly, for millions and millions and millions of Americans who would be affected by this. We`re going to talk with the Congresswoman Jayapal about that in just a moment.You might also have seen tonight this developing story about sort of a nightmare scenario cyberattack on a water treatment plant at a small community in Florida in the Tampa Bay area. It`s a town in Florida that`s literally 12 miles from the stadium where the Super Bowl was held this weekend.And in advance of this Wednesday, on Friday, somebody hacked into a computer at this town`s local treatment facility and used that computer they hacked into to try to poison the town`s water supply. They actually did change the level of one chemical that`s supposed to be at 100 parts per million or less. They changed it in the computer system so it would instead be added to the water at more than 11,000 parts per million, which could have been quite catastrophic had it not been caught.It was caught. It was caught immediately. A plant employee basically watched the attack in real time while it happened, while somebody hacking from somewhere remotely accessed his computer and changed the settings about that chemical additive. The local sheriff briefed on it today.The national press is starting to pick it up. The FBI and Secret Service are now involved in investigating who done it, and how this happened. We`ve got one of the best cybersecurity investigators in the country here tonight to talk about that. She`s been warning a scenario exactly like this for years. about something like this for years.Nicole Perlroth literally has a book coming out tomorrow on these kinds of threats and specifically in the international market for these kinds of hacking capabilities. Nicole Perlroth is going to join us in just a moment as well, as that story, scary story out of Florida continues to develop.And, of course, the trial of former president Donald Trump starts tomorrow in the United States Senate, the only American president to have ever been impeached twice will now start his second impeachment trial. We now know that day one tomorrow is going to be four hours of debate about basically whether or not it`s okay for the Senate to even be holding that trial given that President Trump is no longer in office.If that`s ringing a bell is because you`ll remember there was already a vote in the Senate on this not long ago. Forty-five Republican senators -- all but five of the Republican senators voted on this resolution in such a way that said it wasn`t constitutional for the Senate to go ahead with this trial, specifically because Trump is no longer in office. Essentially, they`re saying on a technicality, Trump shouldn`t face a Senate trial for this impeachment.What of course was amazing about that at the time they took that vote is that the Senate very well could have put Donald Trump on trial in this second Senate impeachment trial while he was still in office. They could have done that if they wanted to. It was Republican Senate Leader Mitch McConnell who refused to do that. McConnell refused to recall the Senate so they could start the Senate trial while Trump was still president.They didn`t start to trial until after Trump was gone. And once Trump was gone, McConnell voted with all those other Republican to say, this trial should have started while he was president and now it`s too late. It`s like your gym teacher kept made keep running laps even after the bell went off and then sent to the principal`s office because you were late to the next class.You were the one who`s making me run laps! Go to the principal`s office. What did I tell you?The Democrats would have had happily acceded to Trump being put on trial while he was still president. It was Mitch McConnell who stopped them from doing that. And now, it`s Mitch McConnell is saying, well, it`s too late now.He can`t be tried while he`s president. Nor can he be tried after he`s president. But Senator McConnell wants everyone to know just how much he wants Donald Trump to be held accountable for what he did.Anyway, there will be four hours of debate starting at 1:00 tomorrow on the question of whether the Senate is allowed under the constitution to hold this impeachment trial for Donald Trump even though Trump is now a former official. The last time they voted on this, when Rand Paul put this up before the Senate, some of the 45 Republicans who voted no on that question and said it was unconstitutional to try Trump as a former president, some of those Republicans said they were only voting that way because they wanted there to be a debate on this issue.And so, this will effectively call that question, the trial will start with that debate. We will see whether all the Republicans who voted that this trial shouldn`t happen will still hold to that tomorrow. That vote will be tomorrow before the end of the day.Then the next day, on Wednesday, starting at noon, which is prescribed by the Constitution, they will start presenting the case for and against the former president. Now, in terms of President Trump`s -- well, the prosecutors, right, that`s the House impeachment managers. There`s nine Democratic member of Congress who are essentially going to be prosecuting the case on behalf of the house, which has already impeached him taxpayer defense team on the president`s side has been a little harder to follow.He originally had a team of lawyers from South Carolina. Then he fired all of them. Then he hired a couple of new lawyers. Now apparently the president has just gotten himself a new defense lawyer, a third defense lawyer as of today. We know this because his name appeared on the documents that were related to the trial that were filed with the U.S. Senate.This new attorney for the president is a personal injury attorney, so maybe there`s like a whiplash component or a slip and fall element to the president`s defense that we`re not anticipating yet. Perhaps there was an unknown fender bender on January 6th the president wants you to know he didn`t do. I don`t know, he`s got a third defense lawyer which, I kid you not, is a personal injury lawyer.One other somewhat inexplicable late development tonight among the president`s legal team is that one of his three now three lawyers, Mr. Doug Schoen, last week asked the Senate if they would please change the trial to accommodate his religious practice. He`s Jewish and he strictly observes the Sabbath, which means he`s not allowed to work after sundown on Friday, or all day Saturday.And, of course, it`s kind of a big deal to change the schedule for an impeachment trial since these things are actually laid out in the Constitution, but Senator Schumer for the Democrats, who`s the first Jewish majority leader in Senate history, and Senator McConnell for the Republicans, they agreed -- they agreed mutually that would accommodate Mr. Schoen`s request and therefore even though it`s an unusual accommodation, they would recess President Trump`s impeachment trial at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on Friday, so just ahead of sundown on Friday, and they wouldn`t reconvene at all on Saturday. They would not reconvene until Sunday afternoon.That is a very unusual schedule for an impeachment trial, but they agreed to it at the request of Mr. Schoen, the president`s attorney. They announced it today formally they`ll go ahead with the no trial on Saturday schedule. They even released the written resolution that formalizes it and everything.But then tonight after the resolution was released, after they formally agreed to it, Mr. Schoen, the president`s lawyer, decided that he didn`t want that accommodation after all. He sent this letter saying, never mind. He really appreciates it. Thanks for accommodation, but he doesn`t need it anymore.It is now cool for them to hold the trial on Saturday. He just won`t participate.It`s totally unclear why Mr. Schoen asked for that big change in the Senate trial schedule if he didn`t actually want them to do it. They said yes, and he said, no, I don`t care. I don`t want it.It`s unclear as to whether or not this means they`re going to change the schedule back to the original plan. That means they`ll is to change the written resolution laying out the trial rules and schedule they were going to vote on tomorrow. It`s just a bizarre turn and the timing of it is bizarre, but that is just one of the strange things that is unfolding in the news tonight.And on the eve of that trial starting tomorrow, the idea that you hear in conservative media, and the idea that you hear among some Republicans that the events of January 6th are so far behind us and, you know, Trump`s gone and this whole thing ought to be put out of our minds so we can move forward, that argument, that mind set, is very much undermined by the current news cycle, and not just current events but new revelations in the news.For example, there was reporting by Matthew Rosenberg of "The New York Times" this weekend that after Trump`s disgraced national security adviser Mike Flynn started advocating after the election publicly that Trump should impose martial law. After Flynn started advocating publicly that Trump should order the U.S. military into the streets to, in his words, rerun the election in states that Trump lost. After Flynn started making that public case about what Trump should do, according to "The New York Times" this weekend, quote, Trump raised the idea of putting Mr. Flynn in charge of the FBI and later suggested making him chief of staff, meaning White House chief of staff for the final weeks of his administration.So, here`s the impeachment trial starting with President Trump`s new lawyers claiming that everything Trump said leading up to January 6th was just hyperbole, typical politics and rhetorical flourishes and he didn`t mean what he said literally and didn`t have any aim to overturn the election by force -- that`s what they`re going to be arguing, right? But, yeah, there was that guy suggesting that Trump should use the military to use force to undo the election for him, and the president`s reaction to that was reportedly to try to put that guy in charge of the White House, to make him White House chief of staff or maybe head of FBI. Maybe he could do it from there.Trump`s reaction to Flynn suggesting that he has the military takeover to undo the election was to try to put Flynn operationally in charge of the White House. And if you -- you know, if you think that this is all in the past -- oh, it`s ancient history. It was all a month ago.Today in Arizona, absolutely remarkable story, Republicans in the state Senate in Arizona today held a vote that would have allowed them to lock up the county elections board in a county that voted for Biden instead of Trump in November. This vote in the Arizona Senate would have declared the Maricopa County elections board to be in contempt which means that the elections board could all be arrested at the discretion of the Arizona Republican state senate.We`re going to have more on this later on in the show tonight because this deserves a lot more attention than it is getting. But apparently, Arizona`s Republican Party is demanding that this county that voted for Biden, Maricopa County, needs to hand over its ballots, individual voters` ballots to the Republicans in the state Senate. And the county says, we can`t do that without a judicial order to hand those ballots over to anyone.And the Arizona Senate Republicans came within one vote today of threatening to lock up the members of that county elections board in order to get those ballots. Because they, what, were going to use the ballots to prove the steal! #stopthesteal or whatever.I mean, they`re still fighting that war. Arizona Republicans censured the Republican governor of Arizona for having to temerity to certify the election results in that state, and they are still tonight trying to overthrow the election results in Arizona by trying to overthrow the election results in Maricopa County in part by threatening this imprison the election officials in the county.Trump refuses to let anyone refer to him as a former president and Arizona Republicans are still insisting that Trump must have won their state and is rightfully therefore still the president. Still, this is tonight. We`ll have more on that later.That story took an uglier turn tonight before we got on the air. We`re trying to turn around the tape as to what happened at the end of the Senate in this debate. You should hear it. It`s eh.Now, I mentioned there was only one vote in the Arizona senate that stopped them trying to lock up the elections board today. You might remember in the more immediate aftermath of the November election, it was only one vote on the state elections board in Michigan, one Republican member of that board, who stood up and said that he had read the Constitution, he read the rules and actually he wasn`t going to go along with the Republican plan in Michigan to try to block certification of Biden`s win there. It was just one vote, one guy who stood in the way of that Republican plot there to undo the election result in Michigan.While Republicans in Michigan have now removed that guy from the state elections board, so he won`t be there anymore to stand up and do the legal thing. This weekend Michigan Republicans chose a new vice chair for their state party. They chose somebody who actually personally participated in the street protests outside the vote tallying site in Michigan, demanding to be let in because somehow Trump must have won and it was all being stolen. That`s who will be the number two person statewide in the Republican Party in Michigan.That`s happening now. These decisions are being made now. Republicans are not moving on. Republicans in Washington are like, you know, Democrats, we understand you`re a very -- you were all upset about this but you need to grow up, pull your socks and move on.Meanwhile, Republicans in the states, they`re not moving on from what Trump tried to pull off with the attack on the capitol January 6th. They`re keeping on with it. And all the people who are start of the whole stop the steal, Biden isn`t really the president thing, they`re all getting elevated in the state parties. And people who stood with the election results and said, we shouldn`t try to overturn the election by force, those are the people getting censured and thrown out of the party. Who`s not moving on here?But the impeachment trial of President Trump for his role in the January 6th attack, that starts tomorrow. In the great state of Georgia tonight, the secretary of state`s office is announcing they`re opening a formal investigation into President Trump calling state officials to telling them to change the vote tally so it would look like he won the state instead of Biden. The president told the secretary of state to recalculate the state results and, quote, find enough votes to make Trump the winner.That call to the secretary of state is lesser noticed part of the impeachment article that was passed in the House that will be the basis for his trial starting tomorrow. But in Georgia, they`re not only investigating that call to the secretary of state as a potentially criminal matter now. They`re also apparently going to investigate Trump`s other menacing calls to other state officials, including the state`s governor and a lower level employee in the secretary of state`s office who the president personally called. All of these different attempts by the president personally to get Georgia election officials to overturn the rightful election results so that Trump could stay in office.I mean, it would truly be something for Republicans in the U.S. Senate to blow off and excuse President Trump`s actions in this trial starting tomorrow, to say it`s no big deal, right, we`re moving on. We don`t think what he did is that much of a problem.It would be something for Republicans in the U.S. Senate to say that while at the same time, the president could soon be facing prison time in Georgia for those actions, as violations of state law, under Georgia, it is a serious crime, a serious crime to solicit a person to commit election fraud. It`s doesn`t matter if you`re a president of the United States when he did, and the Senate Republicans don`t care. Its` a crime in the state of Georgia, one for which you can be convicted and punished, especially one for which you have the great wisdom do it on tape.Republicans in the Senate don`t want to hear it. They don`t hear any of it. They don`t want to trial to happen, but they`re going to have start casting their ayes and nays tomorrow after the first four hours of debate.For his part, President Biden has been asked multiple times, both directly by Norah O`Donnell in CBS this weekend, and indirectly through the press secretary, if he wants to weigh in on the former president`s fate on this trial, whether he`d vote to convict Trump if we were in the Senate. President Biden has refused to be drawn into these situations, saying it`s only a matter for the Senate and not for him to say.What he says keeps reiterating is what he`s solely focused on right now is COVID relief, is combating the pandemic and passing the COVID relief bill, the American Rescue Plan.And I`ll tell you, on that relief plan, the one part of it that remains an object of absolute fixation for the press is whether Republicans will vote for it as well as Democrats. And certainly for the purposes of score keeping and, you know, partisan competition as a televised sport, that is an interesting question. I myself will be interested to see if any Republicans vote for it.But on the other hand, who cares, right? It`s called the American Rescue Plan for a reason -- this is a thing the country really needs, something that new polling shows 9 out of 10 Americans are in support of, 9 out of 10 Americans support a new COVID rescue plan. This is something we really need as a country.So maybe Republicans will vote for it, maybe not. What`s perhaps of more consequence is what`s going to be in this, what`s going to be in the bill, whether or not there are Republican votes to the bill. Frankly, it`s up to the Democrats to decide whether this things President Biden said he wants in the bill are actually going to be in it, because while Republicans are free to vote for this bill, they don`t need to in order for it to pass.So, it really is up to the Democrats to decide, will there be $1,400 stimulus checks to bring the amount of stimulus up to that $2,000 level that even President Trump was demanding before he left office and senators like John Ossoff and Raphael Warnock campaigned on relentlessly in Georgia when they won their seats in the Senate last month to give Democrats control of the U.S. Senate.Will everyone was eligible for previous COVID relief payments still be eligible for these next ones, or will Democrats cut a whole bunch of middle class people off from those COVID relief checks? In previous relief agreed to by Democrats and Republicans, if you`re keeping track of that sort of thing, the income threshold for getting COVID relief was $75,000. Anybody who`s making $75,000 a year or less got a COVID relief check.If they drop that threshold a lot, if they drop that threshold down to $50,000, that would mean there are something like 40 million American who is got checks last time who went get them again. And why would Democrats want to do that? I mean, to be blunt about it, Democrats are planning on campaigning against Republicans who vote against this thing. They`re planning on campaigning against Republicans who vote against this thing by saying, hey, look, the Republicans busted the budget to give tax breaks to the richest in the country, but when it came time to give out COVID relief, they voted to stiff you.I mean, that`s what Democrats want to use as a political argument to really pressure the Republicans on this thing. But then when the Democrats in charge -- Democrats are in charge and they can write the bill, they decide to cut 40 million Americans off from relief? Forty million middle class Americans who got help while the Republicans were in control? The Democrats cut them off?Why would you do that? I mean, that`s a lot of things. Great politics is not one of them. In this case, the progressive caucus would argue the quality of politics and quality of the policy go hand in hand.Pramila Jayapal is chair of the progressive caucus. She and her colleagues have been arguing not only that the Democrats shouldn`t cut all those tens of millions of middle class Americans out of the COVID relief bill, she and her caucus have really led the way to fight for the COVID relief bill to also raise the minimum, a hike in the federal minimum wage for the first time in 12 years. That would give us -- that would give 27 million Americans a permanent raise.Joining us now is Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal from the great state of Washington. She`s the chair of the Progressive Caucus.Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, it`s great to see you. Thank you so much for joining us tonight.REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL (D-WA): It is great to be with you, Rachel.MADDOW: Let me ask you first at a personal level, if you don`t mind, I know that you`ve been contending with COVID. I just want to ask how you are and how your family is.JAYAPAL: Thank you so much for asking. I`m almost 100 percent and my husband is almost 100 percent. And I just -- my heart goes out to people across this country -- 450,000 who have died and people who are dealing with it, because the effects do go on. And we were two of the lucky ones, frankly, to even have as short of a recovery we have had.So we`re doing well. Thank you.MADDOW: Good. I`m glad -- I`m glad to hear it. We have had challenges in own family and I know that those long consequences are a real thing.Well, let me ask you about this plan for relief for the American public on COVID. I think I laid out some of -- at least the way I understand the discussion, as far as I can tell, it`s a point of interest, particularly to the press, as to whether or not a few or a lot or no Republicans are going to join with Democrats in passing this thing.But as a matter of content, it doesn`t much matter. It`s up to Democrats who have the votes just in the Democratic Caucus to pass this thing to decide what`s going to be in it, and you and your colleagues in the Progressive Caucus are really leading to make sure the benefits are not cut down from what they were in terms of relief under President Trump and that important economic measures like the rise in the minimum wage are included.Is that fair?JAYAPAL: That`s totally fair, and you are right on when you said we shouldn`t care whether Republicans are going to vote for this or not, because the vast majority of the American people support this package, Republicans and Democrats. So, if we want to talk about unifying proposals, a big bold stimulus package that raises the wage and gets checks out to people, puts hundred in people`s pockets, deals with all of the issues that small businesses and families are facing, that is the unifying proposal.And Republicans, if they don`t want to go along with it, that`s up to them. But we now control -- Democrats now control the House, the Senate, and the White House. I grant you it`s a thin majority in both chambers, but the reality, Rachel, is we`ve got to do what we promised. We`ve got to get these $2,000 checks -- $1,400 in addition to the $600 out to people.We should not be cutting thresholds to $50,000 and $100,000. That makes no political sense. You outlined that. But it also makes no policy sense, because we are looking at 2019 numbers to determine this eligibility. Everybody understands that tens of millions of people lost their jobs or had reduced income in 2020. So if you look at an income threshold from 2019, it is not relevant to what we`re trying to do.And this idea of targeting -- I just call it restricting for no good reason, because if you really wanted to target, you would need to look at the most recent data on income, which is not what we`re using in this bill. So let`s just get these checks out to everybody. And we did score a victory after a lot of pushing that the progressive caucus did over the weekend. We were able to secure at least the initial victory of keeping these thresholds the same.But we just have to be really clear, there are a lot of people who are hurting over this country. And reducing thresholds and talking about some fake targeting is not going to get relief to people, on top of not being what we campaigned on. So that`s the first thing.And then the second thing on minimum wage, I mean, I represent the city that was the first major city in the country to pass the minimum wage, $15 minimum wage.I was on the committee that helped draft that proposal when we passed it back in 2014, and that`s Seattle, of course. And so this has been such a big priority for progressives for a decade, led by fast food workers across this country. And just over the weekend, we were starting to hear all the reasons why we shouldn`t put $15 into the bill, and frankly, we had to push back very, very hard.We were able to work with leadership, with the chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, and yesterday there was to $15 bill in the education and labor markup, and today, Rachel, there is.What does that mean? $330 billion in wages will flow to workers over the next ten years. Twenty-seven million workers will get a raise. And 1 million workers will be lifted out of poverty.This is a core important issue and structural reform that will also persist past COVID. So it is one of the most important things we can do. I just got a smile from ear to ear, but I want to make sure that people understand we`ve got to get it across the finish line.It`s got to stay in the bill. The thresholds have to stay in the bill all the way through the House and then into the Senate. And Democrats have to fight. We have to fight with everything we`ve got for these progressive, bold ideas that are going to bring relief to people.MADDOW: Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus -- I`m not sure people knew the $15 minimum wage wasn`t going to be in the bill until the work that was done by you and other progressives over the weekend to get that there. So, that`s -- thank you for you helping us understand that, and for helping us to make that news and let everybody know, I just say this is -- this is the start of the process, but laying out the stakes out as clearly as possible.It`s great to see you. Good wishes on a good recovery.JAYAPAL: Great to see you, too, Rachel, and to you and your family as well. I followed some of that.MADDOW: Thank you so much.JAYAPAL: And it was heartbreaking and I so appreciate you bringing that to the forefront.MADDOW: Thank you and it`s really kind for you to say.All right. We got much more to get to tonight here tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Oldsmar, O-L-D-S-M-A-R, is a city on the west side of Florida, about 15,000 people live there. It`s about a half hour down the road from Tampa.The stadium where the Super Bowl was played this weekend is about 12 miles away.But as we were heading into this weekend, the Super Bowl weekend, on Friday afternoon, somebody tampered with the drinking water in the city of Oldsmar, Florida.Before the water leaves the Oldsmar treatment facility -- they`ve got a town water treatment facility. Before it leave there is and flows into people`s taps, certain chemicals and additives get added to the drinking water to make it safe for people to drink.And at 1:30 p.m. on this past Friday, an employee at the Oldsmar water treatment plan noticed that the cursor on his screen started moving around on its own. The cursor pulled up the control for a chemical called sodium hydroxide. Sodium hydroxide is better known by the common name lye. Lye is used to help regulate the acidity of the drinking water. It`s added to potable water in small amounts to regulate the ph of the water.But in high doses, lye, of course, can be dangerous, profoundly so. It`s the same chemical that`s used in liquid drain cleaners. Typically, Oldsmar adds lye into its water in 100 parts per million or less. But on Friday morning, that water treatment employee watched that phantom cursor move the controls in the water treatment software to increase the amount of lye being added into Oldsmar`s water from less than 100 parts per million to over 11,000 parts per million.It was obvious to this employee right away that his computer was being hacked. He immediately took control of the machine, undid what the hacker had just done before the water could be significantly contaminated.Today, the county sheriff announced that the water treatment facility on Friday was unlawfully hacked. He said the FBI and the U.S. secret service are involved in an ongoing investigation. As of now, there are no known suspects.It is unknown whether the hacker was located overseas or here in the United States. City officials made it clear today that even if that water treatment employee hadn`t been so attentive on Friday and hadn`t seen the hack happen in real-time, it still would have taken at least a full day before that contaminated water hit people`s taps. They say there are other safeguards in place that would have detected the strong change in the ph of the water, the contamination of the waterway before then. So they`re saying that this kind of attack on the city`s water supply would have been caught some other way if it wasn`t caught the way that it was, which I guess is comforting in a sense.But until we know more about this hack, including how hard it was to pull off, it really does raise all sorts of questions about, you know, how secure all of those safeguards really were. If you could hack the computer that added the lye to the water, could you have hacked the alarms that are supposed to alert people that the ph is wrong in the water as it is getting to people`s taps?An attack on our critical infrastructure, on our electricity, on our hospitals, on the water we drink, that is the nightmare scenario for cyber warfare leading the conceptual realm most of us don`t get into the terrorism realm that a lot of us think about all the time. That nightmare has never been fully realized in this country, but in Oldsmar, Florida, on Friday we got one big step closer.Nicole Perlroth is a cybersecurity reporter for "The New York Times". She`s really, really good. She has reported on critical infrastructure attacks all over the world.This is what she had to say tonight after hearing the news out of Oldsmar. She says, quote, I always put water treatment plants first in my stories in my line-up of remotely hackable infrastructure. It is because this is the attack scenario that freaked me out to most. To date, these attacks have been near misses, yet we continue to see determined hackers poking and probing these systems. We are warned of cyber Pearl Harbor bombs, but water contamination is a silent though no less deadly threat.Nicole Perlroth has a brand-new book out called "This is How They Tell Me the World Ends: The Cyberweapons Arms Race." She joins us here next.Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: For about a decade, journalist Nicole Perlroth has been covering cybersecurity and digital espionage for "The New York Times", covering everything from Russia`s hacking targeting federal agencies and U.S. elections and the Ukrainian gas company at the center of the first Trump impeachment to North Korea`s cyberattacks against banks and hospitals to Iran`s attacks on oil companies and also on banks.She`s also on the byline tonight on a story that feels unsettlingly much closer to home, the hacking of the town water treatment plant in a little city called Oldsmar, Florida, population 15,000. That attempted poisoning on Friday, Nicole Perlroth tonight calls that, quote, the scenario, a cyberattack on a water treatment facility that contaminates a town water that has long been feared by cybersecurity experts.Well, tomorrow, coincidence, this barn-burning culmination of Nicole Perlroth`s years of reporting on cybersecurity is about to hit book shelves. It reads like a novel. It is not. It is called "This is How They Tell Me the World Ends: The Cyberweapons Arms Race."In it, Perlroth lays out how the U.S. has gone from leading the world in cyber hacking expertise to being really quite vulnerable to cyberattacks from lots of places. She says, quote, the analogy to Pearl Harbor is a deeply flawed one. America didn`t see that attack coming. We`ve seen the cyber equivalent coming for a decade, but we`re experiencing instead is not one attack, but a plague, invisible to the naked eye, that ripples across our country at an extraordinary rate, reaching every deeper into our infrastructure, our democracy, our elections, our freedom, our privacy and our psyche with no end in sight.American computers are attacked every 39 seconds. Only when there are highly visible mishaps do we pause for reflections. But the lessons from the most destructive attacks seem to be forgotten too quickly. We`ve normalized them, even as the threats grow higher, as the threats mutate into even deadlier versions as they hit us quicker than before.Joining us is Nicole Perlroth, cybersecurity reporter for "The New York Times", author of the new book, "This is How They Tell Me the World Ends."Nicole, congratulations on the book, thanks for being here on the eve of publication. I really appreciate it.NICOLE PERLROTH, CYBERSECURITY REPORTER, "THE NEW YORK TIMES": Thanks so much for having me, Rachel.MADDOW: So, I read everything that you write and I find your beat fascinating. And I also -- I`m not the kind of person who easily wraps my head around these kind of details but you explain them so I can understand.Given that I have that trust in you as a reporter and explainer of these things, can you tell me sort of how many alarms this water treatment plant in Florida story has set off for you? How serious do you think this is?PERLROTH: Well, like I said, you did a great job explaining it. Like I said, this is the attack I`ve been worried about for a long time. Whenever I talked about the hypothetical event of a cyberattack hitting critical infrastructure in the United States, the one that always freaked me out the most was a hack on a water treatment facility because this is not something where an explosion would go off or a bomb. This is something where someone getting into these controls like they did Friday could actually contaminate the drinking water for large swaths of the population.Now, in this case, Oldsmar`s population is 15,000, but we should look at this attack very carefully. We should look at how they got in. We should try to understand what sort of mitigations would have been put in place if someone happened to not be sitting at their computer and watch their mouse cursor move around. It sounds like that contaminated water wouldn`t have gotten into the drinking supply for another 24 to 36 hours and there might have been sensors along the way.But I thought you made a great point, which is that if they could get into these systems and they could access the controls, what was to stop them from maybe mucking up the controls themselves to make sure that those last- minute mitigations wouldn`t work. And, you know, as you read from my book, we just continue to see these sort of escalating cyberattacks, and the one that really -- what really brought this to mind was the attack in 2017 that Russia pulled off on a Saudi petrochemical plant where what they did was they actually dismantled the safety locks at that plant, the very last mitigation in a long line of mitigations that is in place to prevent an explosion. They were actually able to essentially neutralize those safety locks.So we know that`s possible. We don`t know what would have happened here if someone wasn`t sitting at their computer, but we continue to have these big near misses, and it seems like each one just gets closer and closer and closer.MADDOW: I feel like the thing that I have learned from your reporting, particularly from the book, is that my initial instinct on this as a consumer of news is sort of wrong, or at least it is beside the point. My initial instinct is, yeah, how hard is it to do this? Does that limit the number of suspects? How long is it going to take to figure out who did this and, therefore, what their intent was and how they can be brought to justice?I feel like from your reporting I have learned that basically everybody can do this, that if it can be done, there`s lots of skilled actors around the world and a lot of our lack of defenses as a country are because we came to believe that we were the only people who were working on this with any level of expertise. So we never built defenses into our own systems. Now that everybody has the tools that we have, and I mean everybody in a hyperbolic sense, but lots of entities have that.Thinking about the individual suspects` list maybe isn`t the right approach here.PERLROTH: Yeah. I mean just like you said, anybody could have done this. You know, it could have been a bored teenager, it could have been a disgruntled employee, it could have been a nation state. You know, most of my reporting has focused on the nation state threat, but, yes, this is not that difficult to pull off. Many of the people I talked to today called it a pretty simplistic attack.So, you know, one of the things people highlighted was that this was on a really small facility. You know, when you are talking about a giant critical infrastructure operator like a PG&E, they`re going to have a lot of mitigations and security measures in place. But where we`re vulnerable is with these smaller utilities, these small water treatment plants, these small towns and cities, the smaller dams that hackers could get inside their control system, dismantle the locks on these dams and essentially cause a kind of cyber-induced tsunami.We`ve seen some of these. You know, a couple of years ago, I think it was 2013, we caught Iranian hackers inside the Bowman Avenue Dam. Now, the Bowman Avenue Dam is about 30 miles north of New York. It keeps back a little bubbling brook, and it wouldn`t have done that much damage if they had actually pulled it off.But I remember the day it happened, Michael Daniel, who was then the White House cybersecurity coordinator 3:00 a.m. phone call, sort of famed 3:00 a.m. phone call from John Brennan, freaked out because they thought it was the Arthur J. Bowman Dam in Oregon, which if Iranian hackers got in inside that dam and basically messed with the locks that hold its water back, they really could have caused the equivalent of a terrorist attack.So, we keep seeing sort of the capabilities, keep getting better and better, and we keep seeing more and more adversaries probing at our critical infrastructure. There were more attacks on American critical infrastructure in the second half of last year than we had seen in the previous two years combined. So the threat is getting more frequent.And, you know, here is the bigger thought though, is the United States still is the world`s top cyber superpower. We have the best offensive capabilities when it comes to cyberattacks. There`s a reason why you keep seeing me report on Russian attacks and Iranian attacks and Chinese attacks. It is not because I`m ignoring what the NSA or cyber command does. It is just that their attacks are much more difficult to detect because they`re just better and more sophisticated and more stealthy.The problem is, is that over the last 10 years, the United States` lead in this area has been slipping. We are now among the most targeted or not maybe among the most targeted countries in the world by hackers, and we are the most vulnerable because we are so digitized. We made this decision as a society a long time ago we wanted as much convenience and access as possible.You know, first it was Uber and then we developed Uber of this and the Uber of that. We wanted to control our whole lives via remote control, and that`s also true for our critical infrastructure. We wanted to make it possible for software engineers to be able to measure the temperature and the pressure and the chemical levels at our water treatment facilities from afar, but that same access makes us more vulnerable than most other nation states out there. So we have a big problem here when it comes to defense.MADDOW: Yeah. All of these things that we think of as advances end up creating all new vulnerabilities in their wake.Nicole Perlroth, the author of this new book that comes out tomorrow, "This is How They Tell Me the World Ends", fantastic title, "Cyberweapons Arms Race" -- again, congratulations on this achievement, Nicole. Thanks for helping us understand tonight.PERLROTH: Thank you. And thank you for continuing to raise these issues because they really are only getting scarier and worse as time goes on. So I am sure I will be talking to you soon.MADDOW: I hear you. I hear you.All right. We will be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Today in Arizona, the Republican-controlled state Senate took a vote on whether they should have the elected leaders of Arizona`s largest county arrested. They took a count on whether to have all five Maricopa County supervisors locked up because the supervisor, five-member board, have a nerve to declare that Biden had won their county fair and square in the election. Republicans in the state senate are so sure there must have been massive fraud that stole the election from Donald Trump in Maricopa that they subpoenaed the board of supervisors and demanded they hand over the voting machines and ballots. State Senate Republicans said they would look at the ballots themselves and find the fraud themselves.Well, the board said they can`t do that, voter`s ballots are secret by law. In response Senate Republicans moved to vote to hold the entire board of supervisors in contempt, which would have authorized the arrest of all of them.Well, tonight the supervisors can breathe a sigh of relief, though just barely, the contempt vote failed by a single vote. One Senate Republican broke with his party. But here is something you should see -- when it became clear the contempt vote was going to fail, one Republican senator issued what sounded frankly like a threat.This is Republican Arizona Senator Kelly Townsend. She is speaking on the Senate floor remotely. I will warn you her virtual background is distracting but listen to what she says here.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)STATE SEN. KELLY TOWNSEND (R), ARIZONA: Now, it is going to have to go into the hands of the public. Right now, the last place this needs to be is in a place where the public is so lathered up over all of this. We need to do this in a way that is professional, legal and proper, not that the public`s not, but they shouldn`t have to do this on our behalf. So, public, do what you got to do.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: So, public, do what you got to do. The public is going to have to take care of this on their own because we didn`t do it here. That lathered up public. Do what you got to do.Do what? What do you want the public to do here? I mean, what they`re talking about here is arresting the Maricopa County board of supervisors.She is saying the public is going to have to go do that? Really? Public, do what you got to do?Wherever the modern Republican Party is going, Arizona appears to be getting there first. Wow.Watch this space.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Thanks for being with us tonight.Special coverage of President Trump`s Senate impeachment trial begins at 9:00 a.m. here on MSNBC. That will run throughout the day, and I`ll be back here tomorrow night at the usual time.I should also tell you that tonight, my colleague Lawrence O`Donnell is going to have a special hour about tomorrow`s impeachment trial. It`s called "Trump on Trial" and that begins right now.Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. END