Summary:The House voted to remove Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene fromher committees. President Joe Biden criticized Russia in his first StateDepartment visit. Interview with Sen. Chris Murphy, Democrat ofConnecticut, member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.Transcript:SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D-MA): The number one thing he can do to help closethe black/white wealth gap, is cancel $50,000 worth of student loan debt.It would be transformative for families and transformative for this nation.CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST, "ALL IN": Senator Elizabeth Warren of the state ofMassachusetts, thank you so much for making time tonight.WARREN: Ah, thank you for having me.HAYES: That is "ALL IN" on this Thursday night.THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thanks, my friend. Muchappreciated.And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.Some very exciting news today. The former vice president has a job. Not theformer former vice president who`s now president, no, I mean the immediateformer Vice President Mike Pence. The Heritage Foundation has announcedthat former vice president Mike Pence is going to go work there. They saidtoday, quote: The Heritage Foundation announced today that former VicePresident Mike Pence will join the organization as a distinguished visitingfellow.What exactly is that job? What exactly is he going to do there? It`s kindof beside the point.But Heritage is very excited to have him. Working together with the formervice president, heritage will continue to support and defend our policyaccomplishments while also fighting back against a socialist agenda pushedby those on the left.That`s what Mike Pence is going to be doing. He`s going to be fightingsocialists. Full timish, on a visiting basis. Congratulations, Mr. Pence.Here`s an unexpectedly awkward thing, though. The Heritage Foundation inthis announcement today repeatedly describes their new hire as the formervice president and, indeed, Mr. Pence yesterday unveiled new letterheadproclaiming that he has opened an office now which he is calling the officeof the former vice president. The reason that is surprisingly awkward rightnow is that no matter what he does with his post-White House life, it isgoing to be hard for former vice president to Mike Pence to assert that heever served in the administration of former President Donald Trump becauseapparently we`re not supposed to admit there is such a thing as formerPresident Donald Trump.Mike Pence, so far, is happy to call himself the former V.P. Donald Trumpis not calling himself the former president. And it`s not just with thename of the office. There were two statements released today by -- by Mr.Trump, awkward about what to call him. One was actually a real laugh outloud statement, I`m sorry to say, I did actually laugh out loud today.But in which he signed a letter announcing that he was quitting the actorsunion, SAG AFTRA, because they`re about to strip his membership from himbecause he incited a violent insurrection against the U.S. capitol. Hisletter resigning before they could fire him is -- this is a real thing.I write to you today regarding the so-called disciplinary committee hearingaimed at revoking my union membership. Who cares!He really says that.While I`m not familiar with your work, I`m very proud of my work on moviessuch as "Home Alone 2."And it goes on from there. This letter is to inform you of my immediateresignation from SAG-AFTRA. You have done nothing for me.He sent that on letterhead under the presidential seal. Seriously.It`s worth noting that SAG-AFTRA, the union, sent back to this letter atwo-word response. What they said, their response, was two words, it said,"thank you", which made me laugh out loud again.That was one statement from him today. Second statement from him today wasa letter from his lawyers, his defense lawyers in the impeachment trial,declining a demand that Mr. Trump testify under oath at his impeachmenttrial next week. In the letter, Mr. Trump`s lawyers bend over backwards todescribe him in this very specific way.Quote: Your letter only confirms what is known to everyone, you cannotprove your allegations against the 45th president of the United States. Andthen they sign it, Bruce Castor and David Schoen attorneys to the 45thpresident.Now, it is technically accurate, of course, to call Donald Trump the 45thpresident but it`s just as accurate to call him the former president.Apparently, though, that is something that can never be said, at least notin front of him.Today, his spokesmen for his post-presidential office said on Newsmax TV,quote, I do not expect the 45th president to be in Washington next week.You mean the former president? No, no, no, that cannot be said.I`ve been sort of picking at this for a few days now, but it is now goingon for long enough and it is insistently consistent enough that this isworth noticing. In part because Mr. Trump really does appear to beinsisting on this and that could get very weird very quickly. I mean, thevery first statement he put out from his 45th president`s office at thebeginning of the week had this as the headline.The headline said, 45th President Donald J. Trump announces his legal team.Statement was four paragraphs long. In those four paragraphs, it keptrepeating that exact same un-gamely phrase. The first line, 45th presidentDonald J. Trump today announced, then quotes one of his lawyers saying,it`s an honor to represent the 45th president, then it quotes the otherlawyer saying, I consider it a privilege to represent the 45th president.It`s the same thing in his lawyers` formal written response to theimpeachment charges levied against him, repeatedly and insistently callinghim the 45th president, even when it tortures the grammar and makeseverything impossible to read and makes the sentences not work, butapparently they have to insist insistently call him this because they cannever call him the former president of the United States. I think it ispossible, and I think we should start getting our heads around theprospect, that Donald Trump doesn`t think of himself as the formerpresident. He is not allowing anybody around him to use that phrase abouthim.Does that mean he thinks he`s still president?He used to call Mar-a-Lago the southern White House, which was weird forall sorts of reasons, but maybe that`s what he thinks it is?In the impeachment response from his lawyers, the lawyers claim that it wasnot necessarily a false statement when on January 6th, Trump told the mobthat would attack the capitol that day that he had won the election in alandslide. They are contending in their written defense to the impeachmentthat that is a false statement. They describe the election results ascontested and say it`s not necessarily false that he won in a landslidewhen he said that. Maybe that was true.I think we`re underestimating the potential for crazy here. I mean,Republicans right now are heading into the impeachment trial which startsat the beginning of next week and they think that they are mounting adefense against the conviction of Donald Trump on the technical groundsthat the Senate shouldn`t even be holding an impeachment trial for himbecause he`s not president anymore, because he`s a former president.I`m here to tell you, dude does not agree that he is a former president.And he is not allowing anyone to describe him that way. If that`s thetrapdoor they`re going to use to try to get him out of a Senate impeachmentconviction, he`s going to fight it. He insists he cannot be called a formerpresident. He must be called the 45th president. He`s still using thepresidential seal.There`s no sign that he concedes that there`s now a 46th president so he`san ex. I mean, how many ticks are we away from him claiming that he isstill in office, that he still has the powers of the presidency? That he`srightfully still president?I mean, I would love to hear him cross examined on this subject in a Senatetrial, say, perhaps by lead impeachment manager and distinguishedconstitutional law professor Jamie Raskin. I would pay good money to seethat.But Mr. Trump`s lawyers today said no. They said, no, the 45th presidentwill not testify in Washington next week. Heads up that there`s no reasonthey couldn`t subpoena Trump to testify. I mean, on his behalf, his lawyersare denying factual claims in the charge against him. Somebody should haveto back up those disputations of fact under oath. We shall see.Honestly, I think if you asked Mr. Trump directly, he would love totestify. Nobody listens to him anymore. He has no outlet. He doesn`t have asocial media platform. He doesn`t have anybody meeting with him. He doesn`thave anybody taking his calls as far as we can tell.I mean, he insists that he hasn`t really left office and he`s not a formerpresident and nobody`s listening to him and the Democratic Houseimpeachment managers are now demanding that he come to Washington andexplain the events of January 6th. Don`t you think he`s desperate to dothat?Oh, please, let the man speak under oath. I don`t know what would happen ifthey subpoenaed him. It would be a new test for our country, but that`s notin anything new during the Trump era. We shall see. Trial begins next week.I`m not sure if Capitol Hill Republicans have noticed yet that they are allplanning to vote to acquit him at his trial on the basis of the technicalfact that he`s out of office while the defendant, himself, doesn`t agreeand doesn`t accede to that technical fact. I don`t know if they`ve noticedthat train coming down the tunnel yet.But you can forgive them for their attention being divided. They`ve hadtheir own problems to mishandle over the course of this week.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): I think it would be helpful if you could hearexactly what she told all us, denouncing QAnon. I don`t know if I say itright, I don`t even know what it is. From the shootings, she said she knewnothing about lasers or all the different things that have been brought upabout her.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: She knew nothing about the lasers.The leader of the Republicans in the House, Kevin McCarthy, trying toconvince everybody in Congress that Republican Congresswoman MarjorieTaylor Greene of Georgia has essentially been falsely accused. He says thatshe told him in a private meeting, looked him in the eye and told him thata lot of the things that have been brought up about her, she doesn`t knowanything about them. The lasers thing.He says, she told him, she assured him, quote, she knew nothing about thelasers. Here in her own words is Congresswoman Greene on the lasers fromher Facebook post.Quote: There are too many coincidences to ignore. I find it veryinteresting that Roger Kimmel on the board of directors of PG&E is alsovice chairman of Rothschild Inc. What a coincidence it must be GovernorBrown signed a bill protecting PG&E, and allowing them to pass off the costof fire responsibility to its customers. It must also be a coincidence thefires are burned in the same projected areas the high-speed rail project isto be built. What are the odds that Feinstein`s husband, Richard Bloom, isthe contractor to the rail project?Then oddly, there are all these people who said they saw lasers or bluebeams of light causing fires and pictures and videos. Solar spacegenerators collect the sun`s energy and beam it back to earth. If they`rebeaming the sun`s energy back to earth, I`m sure they never would miss atransmitter receiving stationing right??!!What would that like, anyway? A laser beam or light beam coming down toearth. I guess. Could that cause a fire? Hmm.That`s her in her own words on the lasers. She told Kevin McCarthy she knewnothing about the lasers. Her contention is the Jews are amazing with thespace lasers to start the fires as a false pretense to help the other Jewswith their conniving plots which she told Kevin McCarthy she knew nothingabout the lasers. Kevin McCarthy says he looked her in the eye and told herthat.Her post there is from November 2018. That matters because today on thefloor of Congress, right before all the Democrats and 11 of her fellowRepublicans voted to strip her from all her committee assignments,Congresswoman Greene gave a speech saying that by then, by late 2018, shewas done with all that conspiracy stuff. I mean, that was from her Facebookpage in late November 2018. Her fulminating about the Rothchilds, andFeinstein, and Bloom, and the space beams that caused the forest fires.Today in the floor of the House, she said by that time, by late 2018, she`dactually put all the conspiracy stuff behind her.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)REP. MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE (R-GA): Later in 2018, when I started findingmisinformation, lies, things that were not true in these QAnon posts, Istopped believing it. So I walked away from those things and I decided I`mgoing to do what I`ve done all my life, I`m going to work hard and try tosolve the problems that I`m upset about. So I started getting involved inpolitics.I also want to tell you 9/11 absolutely happened. I remember that daycrying all day long watching it on the news. And it`s a tragedy for anyoneto say it didn`t happen. And so that I definitely want to tell you, I donot believe that it`s fake.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: That was Congresswoman Greene speaking today on the floor of theHouse. She says, it`s a tragedy for anyone to say 9/11 didn`t happen. Idefinitely want to tell you I do not believe it`s fake. She`s telling youshe`s definitely never propounded that.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TAYLOR GREENE: The so-called plane that crashed into the Pentagon, it`sodd, there`s never any evidence shown for a plane in the Pentagon, but,anyway, I`m not going to dive into the 9/11 conspiracy.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: She stood on the house floor and said that she`s never denied that9/11 happened. It`s a tragedy for anybody to say it didn`t happen.This is a problem for the Republican Party not just because she`s now themascot for the Republican Party because they brought her into this nationalrole and kept her there, but while in Congress talking to the Republicanleader one-on-one in a private meeting, talking on the floor of the housetoday to the entire congress, she keeps denying that she said any of thesethings. She`s denied that she said any of them recently.And when all but 11 Republicans today voted to keep her in full standing asa member of Congress, maybe the most generous interpretation of that isthat they naively believed her denials? They shouldn`t have because thedenials are not true.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TAYLOR GREENE: This is what I ran for Congress on. I never once said duringmy entire campaign QAnon. I never once said any of the things that I`mbeing accused of today during my campaign. I never said any of these thingssince I have been elected for Congress. These were words of the past.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: I never once not during my campaign, not since I`ve been inCongress.Here she is four days ago saying online that anybody who opposes DonaldTrump is a pedophile, the list of the anti-Trump pedos. That`s four daysago.That`s the QAnon stuff. That`s since she has been in Congress. That`s sinceit has been pending against her that she was going to lose all of hercommittee assignments.But she is fluent in this stuff. This is how she became a prominent enoughRepublican in Georgia Republican circles that she was able to win a seat inCongress.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TAYLOR GREENE: Okay. So, again, just to go over it, high-level officialswill soon be arrested and hopefully that`s what we`re seeing from all thosefederal -- sealed federal indictments. And it will be a type of corruption.Now, what type of corruption would it be? I mean, is it going to be thestuff that`s rumored, the things that people don`t want to talk about, thethings that people don`t want to think about? I mean, is it going to betrue that the child pedophilia in the elites in the Washington, D.C., isthat what we`re really going to see come out? Is it true, is the type ofcorruption we`re going too see come out, is it going to be Satanic worshipthat possibly all these people are involved in?I mean, we already saw there was an email came out of the WikiLeaks emailswhere was it Cheryl Mills, she told Hillary Clinton in an email she wasgoing to sacrifice a chicken to Moloch in her backyard. That was proofright there that there`s possible satanic worship and maybe all these scarythings that -- that people talk about on what`s considered conspiracy sitesand conspiracy theories really may be true.But that`s -- that`s what "Q" has been telling everyone. We`re talkingabout who is "Q", so I`m going to tell you what he says. According to him,many in our government are actively worshipping Satan or they call Moloch.If that`s not evidence that there`s Satan worship in our government, and ifHillary Clinton was not involved in it, then why would someone -- someonethat is involved in worshipping Satan, why would they tell Hillary that inan email?So Hillary Clinton is obviously involved, too. The other thing that "Q"says, and this is the stuff that we don`t -- we just don`t want to thinkabout, and many Americans don`t want to know about, that "Q" is saying thatthey participate in pedophilia and spirit cooking. And spirit cooking, theyhad that spirit cooking dinner.Something else he has talked about is an interesting triangle. SaudiArabia, the Rothschilds, and Soros, he says are the puppet masters thatfund this global evil. Okay. So I definitely would believe that. The oldSaudi Arabia was funding child trafficking. Hillary Clinton, false flags,and various other evil activities.All those princes and so many of them had ties to the Clintons. Many ofthem were -- had made huge donations to the Clinton Foundation. So that wasalso very, very interesting. They also had ties to Podesta, Huma, Obama,Mitt, because I really think it might happen. So I`m very excited aboutthat.Now, there`s a once in a lifetime opportunity to take this global cable ofSatan-worshipping pedophiles out.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: They also had ties to Huma, Obama, Mitt, Mitt, she says. Did youknow that Mitt Romney was in on it, too? With the space lasers. And theMoloch and the great awakening and the chickens and all the things that "Q"told us.Here she is on the Las Vegas gun massacre.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TAYLOR GREENE: How do you get avid gun owners and people who support theSecond Amendment to give up their guns and go along with anti-gunlegislation? How do you do that? Maybe you accomplish that by performing amass shooting into a crowd that is very likely conservative, you make themscared. You make them victims. And you change their mindset and thenpossibly you can pass anti-gun legislation.Is that what happened in Las Vegas? Are they trying to terrorize ourmindset and change our minds on the Second Amendment? Is that what`s goingon here?I have a lot of questions about that. I don`t believe Steven Paddock was alone wolf. I don`t believe that he pulled this off all by himself.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Eleven Republican members of Congress sided with Democrats today invoting to remove Congresswoman Greene from her committee assignments. Justas white supremacist Republican Congressman Steve King of Iowa was removedfrom his committee assignments just a couple of years ago. That was morethan enough to remove her.This means she will now have no actual work to do in Congress. There`s nopoint, actually, in her even showing up. But the House Republican leader,Kevin McCarthy, apparently believed her denials when she told him to hisface that she didn`t say all these things that she was accused of,definitely at least never said them recently.In believing her when she denied those things to him, Leader McCarthy letdown his caucus in believing her, in not checking that, and repeating herdenials, repeating them as his endorsed assurances that he hadn`t said anyof these things that she`d been accused of. She definitely didn`t knowanything about that laser thing. She hadn`t been talking about the "Q"stuff in a long -- had he checked on whether her denials were accurate, hadhe bothered to check on whether she was lying to him.He could have then told his caucus, hey, I went to her, confronted herabout this stuff and she lied to about it. That could have saved them.That could have been reason enough for him to be able to tell all theRepublicans in the House, hey, listen, there`s all this criticism of her.You can disagree with the people who are criticizing her. Maybe you sidewith her on some of this crazy stuff. But I`m the leader of this caucus.When I went to her about it, she lied to me about it and we can`t havethat.But instead, he just believed her without checking. Didn`t check what shesaid. Thereby, excused her behavior to his caucus, defended her behavior tohis caucus, believed her false denials. And so now they`ve got the worst ofboth worlds. Only 11 Republicans voted to strip her of her committee.She is stripped of her committees. She will not be a working member ofCongress. She will be an ongoing source of humiliation and scandal to allbut 11 of her Republican colleagues because all but 11 of them didn`t actto distance themselves from her. The Democrats had to do it for them, whichis humiliating.The Senate today moved forward with the COVID relief legislation.Republicans, they`re at the part of the process where Republicans areoffering lots of what they call messaging amendments that are not designedto pass. They`re just supposed to be embarrassing votes hopefully and toslow the thing down. Democrats will defeat all of those and then pass thelegislation likely without the Republicans.Today saw the White House face down its first real policy controversy onthe issue of whether teachers should be vaccinated before schools cansafely re-open. We`re going to have more on that later in the show tonight.But the CDC director yesterday at the White House then here on this showlast night talked about the science behind her assertion that whether ornot teachers are vaccinated shouldn`t be seen as a prerequisite for whetheror not schools can safely re-open. That is a very controversial assertion,particularly among teachers.The White House interestingly today said that they will wait until the CDCas an agency releases its official guidance on schools before they make anydecisions on that. So this is kind of their first real bump in the road oncontroversial COVID policy. Again, we will have more on that later, but itis playing out in public.And we`ll have more tonight on the president`s landmark foreign policyspeech and his trip to the State Department today and the stern words thathe had for the Russian government as the Russian government, today, in itssecond day of locking up for the long term the main opposition politicalfigure in that country. So the work is happening, right, but we remained --we remain split screened with the Democratic side running, I mean, both atthe White House and on Capitol Hill. Foreign policy, a new course. Russia,back off. COVID legislation.The first substantive COVID policy fight on their hands. Senator BernieSanders today bringing in all new staff for the first time in years becausenow he`s going to be running Budget Committee. If you don`t think thatBernie Sanders running the Budget Committee is a big deal, r then we shouldtalk more about the Budget Committee.In the House, Congressman Jamie Raskin leading the impeachment managers intheir historic second impeachment trial of a former president, nowconfronting the question of whether they can subpoena him to testifydespite his lawyers saying that he won`t come.So all that work happening on the Democratic side. Some of it backwardlooking toward the disastrous last administration, almost all of the restof it forward looking. They`re moving.On the Republican side, when are they ever going to be able to stop lookingback? With the tsunami looming behind them, with something that seems funnybut may end up being a big, hairy, crazy deal. The former president fromtheir party refusing to admit he is a former president, refusing to bedescribed as a former president, contending implicitly that, what, he`sstill in office? He`s not a former president?Are you going to make Republicans back you up on that and use that as alitmus test and campaign against them if they don`t think -- they don`tpretend that you`re still president? And the House really did makeDemocrats clean up their mess. House Republicans really did make Democratsclean up their mess by just letting it ride, assuming it really wasn`t thatbad, believing the denials and deciding to continue to lend the imprimaturof the U.S. house of representatives to the craziest stuff imaginableincluding a member who has publicly urged the murder of the House speaker.I mean, the split screen here is not like watching two different parties atwork. It`s like watching two different planets circle two different stars.And the consequences resonate here way beyond D.C. in a lasting way. Andthat`s next.Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Among the 11 House Republicans who broke with their party and votedwith Democrats to strip Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of hercongressional committee assignments tonight, three of those 11 Republicansrepresent south Florida. In fact, it`s all three of south Florida`s HouseRepublicans. South Florida, of course, is home to Parkland and MarjoryStoneman Douglas High School, which was the site of an unimaginablyhorrific school shooting in February 2018 in which 17 people were killed.In breaking with most of their party tonight, those three south FloridaHouse Republicans stood instead, quote, with a group of Parkland victims`families who urged them to vote yes, to strip Congresswoman Greene of hercommittees.Congresswoman Greene, of course, has said online that that shooting inParkland didn`t really happen, that it was staged. "Media Matters" found aFacebook threat from 2018 which has since been removed where CongresswomanGreen enthusiastically agreed that Parkland was a, quote, "false flagplanned shooting."She tried to backtrack that today on the House floor before the vote topunish her. South Florida House Republicans were not buying it. Out oftragedy in Parkland, a movement was born thanks to students who survivedthe massacre, who turned their grief and their rage into activism withthose unbelievable marches all across the country. That tragedy alsogalvanized parents, turned them into activists, too. Parents like FredGuttenberg whose daughter, Jamie, was among the 17 victims of the shootingof at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High.For nearly three years Mr. Guttenberg has worked as an activist against gunviolence. As you can imagine, Congresswoman Greene agreeing that the massmurder that took his daughter`s life was some staged event is not somethingthat he has taken lightly.Joining us now is Fred Guttenberg who lost his daughter, Jaime, in Parklandnearly three years ago. Mr. Guttenberg is an activist and -- Mr. Guttenbergis an activist and author. His new book is called "Find the Helpers."Fred Guttenberg, it`s a real honor to have you with us tonight, sir. Thanksfor taking the time.FRED GUTTENBERG, GUN SAFETY ACTIVIST AND AUTHOR: Thank you for having me.I`m honored to be on your show tonight, Rachel.MADDOW: I will tell you, I have struggled in recent days and I reallystruggle today with whether or not to play sound from Congresswoman Greenepurporting her theories, whether or not to highlight the things that she --the false things that she has said and propounded and advocated that havebuilt her into the sort of celebrity that she is because I don`t thinkshe`s worth the attention, and I don`t want to give her a bigger spotlightthan she ought to have.At the same time, it feels wrong to ignore her. Do you struggle with thatat all? How do you balance those feelings?GUTTENBERG: No, I`m so glad you did because, listen, I`ve been sharingthose videos now for weeks. She is a fraud.MADDOW: Uh-huh.GUTTENBERG: And everyone who was paying attention knows she is a fraud.Those videos do exist. So to hear her lying to the members of Congress andto hear, I guess, the current version of this Republican Party buy into thefraud, buy into the lie because they are so afraid of their voters, boy,makes them pathetic, but I`m glad you showed the videos because she did saythese things and not only did she say things like Parkland or Sandy Hook orLas Vegas or 9/11 are false flags and didn`t happen, she had theseconspiracies around them.I mean, you can`t say she`s crazy because everything she said is sointentional.MADDOW: In terms of the position that she`s got in Congress, she`s going tohold a press conference tomorrow. She`s been raising lots of money based onthe, you know, attacks from the liberal mob. She`s got lots of support inher caucus.GUTTENBERG: Yeah.MADDOW: Although I think a lot people were surprised to see 11 votesagainst her.What do you -- what do you think is the best potential outcome here? She isan elected representative. She now has officially no work to do inCongress. Where do you hope this lands and how this ends?GUTTENBERG: Listen, if she wants to keep referring to people like me as aliberal mob, have at it. I`m a dad. My daughter died in Parkland. And Iwill keep responding.Every dollar she brags about raising is costing the GOP money. There`s noquestion this is hurting their donations. If this is the path they want togo down, let them go down it.I am shocked. I remember a day in this country not long ago where twoparties maybe disagreed on policy and they would argue things out, but theydidn`t disagree on facts. They didn`t disagree on working for the Americanpeople.This party today gave up on that. It is -- it is shocking. So if they wantto keep her around, if they want to continue to give her this platform, itonly hurts the bigger party which is why you saw some folks in the Senateand even 11 in the GOP say, we don`t want this.MADDOW: Uh-huh. Fred, I would say that one thing that I have found veryheartening is the ability of individual people and people of like mindworking together in small numbers to change people`s hearts and to movepeople on this subject. So to see Congressman Diaz-Balart, CongressmanJimenez, Congressman Salazar, all from south Florida, all three of them asa bloc, all Republican South Floridians saying we`re not going along withour party on this, we`re instead siding with the parkland parents, that tome feels like a vindication of the kind of work that you and other familieshave done in the wake of the tragedy that you have been through.But it also feels like a template for all of us in terms of thinking abouthow to get through hard things.GUTTENBERG: You know, listen, I`m super proud of what they did and I`mshocked that it was only 11. You know, her story is so clear and her liesare so obvious. And the idea that it was only 11.And I have to comment on something else that she said because a big -- partof her story that convinced a lot of these Republicans to vote her way isshe has talked about something that happened to her 30 years ago. It`s allpart of the fraud. Because 30 years ago she says she was a victim of gunviolence, and I`m not denying that.But here`s the thing. We have 400 million weapons on the street today. Itwas a fraction 30 years ago. So the risk is so different today versus whatshe went through. And there was no chance of an AR-15 coming into her highschool the way one happened with my daughter.So to use that as an example for why she is the person she is is dishonest.But I`ll say one more thing. She says it convinced her that she had to be agood guy with a gun. That`s what she took away from her incidents 30 yearsago.Who says she`s a good guy with the gun? She`s threatened to put a bullet inPelosi`s head, she`s threatened other elected leaders. She`s chased downthe kids like David Hogg telling them, I have a loaded weapon in my purse.She`s not a good guy with a gun. She is a threat. If she lived in a statelike Florida with red flag laws, she`d be losing her weapons. No wonder whyshe`s so against them.But we can`t let her get away with using that incidence as part of herrecovery. She is a fraud.MADDOW: Fred Guttenberg, author, father of Parkland shooting victim JaimeGuttenberg, coming up on three years since that happened, sir. Thank you somuch for speaking with us tonight. I know that this is personal and hardand you being here and being so articulate about what you know on thesubject is an invaluable public service. Thank you.GUTTENBERG: Rachel, thank you for having me. I appreciate it. Have awonderful night.MADDOW: All right. You, too. Thank you.Senator Chris Murphy is going to join us ahead tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: It reads, quote: I urge you, do not let yourselves be intimidated.Do not let yourself be fooled by illusions of power and toughness. Whatkind of power do they have if they need to secretly poison people andlawlessly imprison them? Where is their nationwide support if they can onlywin elections by preventing independent candidates in the race?They can only hold on to power using it for their personal gain by relyingon our fear. Therefore, we, by overcoming our fear, can free our motherlandfrom the handful of thieves who occupy it. The truth is on our side. Stayfree.That was a portion of a letter from prison released today by Russia`s mainopposition leader Alexei Navalny. Navalny survived an assassination attemptmonths ago that very much appears to have been the work of the Kremlin onlyto wake up from his coma, fight through his rehabilitation, and defiantlyannounce a return to Russia, even though Putin`s regime threatened theywould arrest him as soon as he crossed the border, he did it anyway. Andthey followed through, they did lock him up. And two days ago, theysentenced him to years in prison.His letter from prison today comes after Navalny gave an impassioned speechfrom the dock in court just as he was sentenced before he was whisked awayin handcuffs. Since then, that speech has circulated far beyond Moscow. Itwas reprinted today in "The New York Times."Here was President Biden today during his first in-person visit to anyagency since he has been president. Today, he went to the United StatesState Department.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I made it clear to PresidentPutin in a manner very different from my predecessor that the days of theUnited States rolling over in the face of Russia`s aggressive actions,interfering with our elections, cyber attacks, poisoning its citizens, areover. We will not hesitate to raise the cost on Russia and defend our vitalinterests and our people.The politically motivated jailing of Alexei Navalny and the Russian effortsto suppress freedom of expression and peaceful assembly, are a matter ofdeep concern to us and the international community.Mr. Navalny, like all Russian citizens, is entitled to his rights under theRussian constitution. He`s been targeted, targeted for exposing corruption.He should be released immediately and without condition.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: He should be released immediately and without condition.Words directly from the president of the United States on camera lookingstraight into camera, speaking directly to Moscow.Those remarks from the president came within hours of the new secretary ofstate, Antony Blinken, saying he had a one-on-one with his counterpart inRussia, their foreign minister. According to the readout of that call,Blinken made it clear that the Biden administration will, quote, act firmlyin defense of U.S. interests in response to actions by Russia that harm usor our allies.It`s only been two weeks, 15 days, since President Biden took office but,boy, you could not mistake this administration for the last one even in thedark.Joining us now is Senator Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, member ofthe Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a leading light in his party onforeign affairs.Senator, I really appreciate you taking time to be here tonight. Thank you.SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): Yeah, thanks for having me.MADDOW: So, President Biden today had those sharp words about Navalny andabout the Russian government generally. We also saw a big policyannouncement today from the Biden administration stopping all support forthe war in Yemen, which you`ve been so outspoken about. I just wanted toget your reaction. Today was such a huge day on foreign policy.MURPHY: Listen, it is really wild to see how much has changed in a shortperiod of time, rejoining the World Health Organization, the Paris Accord,extending the new START nuclear agreement with Russia for the next fiveyears and now these announcements today. You mentioned the strong wordsabout Navalny. Russia should let him go and we should take action if theydon`t. That could include sanctions.But maybe the bigger news was the decision today to pull the United Statesout of the disastrous civil war in Yemen. This has been a national securitynightmare for the United States. We`ve been helping the Saudis bomb Yemenfor about six years, 100,000 kids have died of starvation and disease.Yemenis are being radicalized against the United States because theyperceive us to be bombing them. And al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula hasgotten stronger.So it was a real clear signal that our policy in the Middle East is goingto be change. We`re not going to be part of war crimes and we may sort ofstep back and think twice about constantly getting involved in these proxybattles in the region between the Iranians and the Saudis.A really great speech today. A signal that Biden is moving past -- movingfast to try to restart American influence around the world.MADDOW: Senator, one of the reasons I wanted to talk to you tonight is Ireally do -- I`m not just flattering you -- I really do think that you arein many ways the future of the Democratic Party on foreign policy issuesnot only because of your clarity on these issues and your intense interestin them, but because I think you hold sway with a lot of your colleagues interms of being just respecting your views.Given that, given what Biden has done thus far, making his first agencytrip to the State Department, cutting off those arms sales to Saudi andUAE, cutting off all offensive support for that war in Yemen, putting thepause in terms of the global force drawdown, which also stops pulling U.S.troops out of our Allied Germany, the decision on Russia, the potential --leaving the potential open for sanctions maybe, specifically on the Navalnyissue. Seeing all these actions so quickly, I have to ask if there areother things you want to be sort of in the first ten things you want to bein the first month of action that you think the Biden administration shouldbe doing or do you think they`re taking all the right steps?MURPHY: Well, listen, I would add two more things to this list. I thinkit`s important that we get back into the Iran nuclear agreement reallyfast. Iran`s, you know, about a month away from a nuclear weapon and it`simportant for us to show the world that, you know, we still believe indiplomacy. So I think that that`s important that they continue to move on apath to re-entering the agreement.The second thing, Rachel, though, is I think an intersection ofadministration policy and what we can do here in Congress. This presidentneeds new tools. We are not properly resourced around the world today whenwe`re spending 20 times as much money on military hardware as we are onsmart power, especially when we have just seen a virus attack us.I think it`s time for a complete reorientation of foreign affairs spending,putting more money into nonmilitary tools around the world, includingpandemic prevention, and my hope is that the Biden administration veryquickly is going to make some of those recommendations to Congress. I thinkevery president is probably going to pail in protecting America so long aswe have more members of military bands than we have diplomats in the StateDepartment.MADDOW: Senator Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, member of the SenateForeign Relations Committee. At work tonight as the work continues there onthe COVID relief bill -- sir, thanks for taking some times in the middle ofall these votes tonight. I appreciate getting a few moments with you.MURPHY: Thanks, Rachel.All right. Coming up we`ve got some actually encouraging developing newsabout a new option for a COVID vaccine. Stay with us. That`s next.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Last night, here for the interview, we had the new director of theCDC, Dr. Rochelle Walensky. We talked about comments she made at the WhiteHouse yesterday about school reopening, specifically about teachers andvaccination. Dr. Walensky said yesterday at the White House, to theconsternation from many quarters, that when it comes to schools reopening,it may not be necessary for a scientific perspective for teachers to all bevaccinated before schools can safely reopen.She reiterated that here last night and said there are other mitigationefforts that are definitely necessary for schools to reopen, and those aremust do even if teachers are not vaccinated first.I asked her about that last night, and she told us here that CDC is workingon official comprehensive guidelines for how and when schools can safelyreopen. Those are not ready yet.But today, asked on this -- asked about the subject, White House PressSecretary Jen Psaki said pointedly that the White House will wait from thatofficial guidance from the CDC as an agency to decide whether or notteachers do need to be vaccinated as a prerequisite for the schoolreopening. They will wait for the CDC to make its recommendation as anagency before they make any pronouncement on that as the administration.So, we`re keeping an eye on that. Obviously lots of teachers around thecountry are worried that schools haven`t taken the other mitigationmeasures that would make things safe for them to go back into theclassroom. And if you can`t solve things like density and kids mask wearand ventilation, particularly in February, then moving from those onto theissue of vaccination may be premature in terms of thinking about how toprotect teachers.Anyway, this is the first big substantive policy fight of the Bidenadministration on COVID. We are watching that.Other big piece of COVID news that broke today is on the vaccine front.Johnson & Johnson officially applying for emergency use authorization withthe FDA. If their vaccine is granted that authorization, it would be thethird vaccine approved for use here. Unlike the two deployed right nowJohnson & Johnson requires only one dose, can be stored in a regularfridge.The chief science officer from Johnson & Johnson says as soon as theyreceive the authorization from the FDA, they`ll be ready to start shippingvaccine immediately. We now think this is going to proceed as follows. Wethink the FDA is going to meet February 26th to discuss that application.That means the authorization could come by the end of the month and vaccineto ship immediately thereafter. That would be a very big deal.Watch this space.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: That is going to do it for us tonight on this Friday eve. I willsee you again tomorrow.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>