Summary:After power outages, Texas faces food and water shortages. DonaldTrump is facing criminal investigations in the wake of the Senateacquittal.Transcript:LORELLA PRAELI, PRESIDENT, COMMUNITY CHANGE ACTION: Like in 2010, Chris,right before I came on to your show when I was still undocumented, Iwatched from the Senate gallery as the DREAM Act was called for a vote. TheDemocrats have the majority in the Senate, and yet they failed to get thevotes to overcome the filibuster. We lost that vote and with it, we lostour hope for stability, for protection for deportation, for a path tocitizenship for 2 million young people in this country.We cannot have a repeat of 2010 and as the president begins to lay out hisframework for this next recovery and jobs bill, there is this procedurethat he can use to make sure that he comes through --CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: I have to --(CROSSTALK)HAYES: On reconciliation. I`m sorry to cut you off. I got to hand pass thebaton to Rachel Maddow.Lorealla Praeli, thanks so much for making time tonight.That is "ALL IN" on this Thursday night.THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thank you, my friend. Muchappreciated.And thanks to you at home for you joining us this hour. Happy to have youhere.So, we landed a car on Mars today. Breathtaking feat of American ingenuityand exploration, just a stunning example of what is possible when Americansput their heads to the to do something truly grand, just an American featof brillo and engineering and ambition, it made your heart sing.To see the team celebrate at the Jet Propulsion Lab, to see those firstpictures being beamed back from the surface of Mars, where we have ourrover now. It`s just amazing. We`re going to have more on that later in theshow tonight.But meanwhile, here on earth today, same day, same country, we still havenot figured out how to keep lights on. Hundreds of thousands of peoplestill in the dark tonight in the great state of Texas suffering what hasbeen a days` long, slow-rolling disaster caused by a big and very coldwinter storm that has pounded most of the country, and it is bad in a bunchof places and a whole bunch of states.But the situation in Texas is just a catastrophe, not only because of theweather, but because of the mix of the weather and Texas` inability toprepare for it and inability to handle it. Against the cold temperatures,demand for electricity is way up so people can heat their homes, but theenergy supply in Texas is simultaneously also way down with Texas`s non-winterized, non-insulated, largely unregulated, very fragile energyinfrastructure, proving itself once again to be incapable of operating inthe cold, incapable of generating anywhere near enough power to light upthe state when demand is high.That has left millions of Americans in Texas without power for days. Nopower, of course, means no heat. That has created dangerous conditions formillions of people. As of tonight, dozens have died in Texas. Theelectricity part of the problem is starting to resolve now, although stilltonight the number of Texans without power remains in the hundreds ofthousands, some of them for four straight days now.Even with improvements, they may not last with many very cold temperaturesin the forecast. Texas regulators are warning they may again have to killpower in parts of the state, parts of the state that have power now may yetlose it, as regulators turn off some neighborhoods, some places that havepower, again. They`re anticipating have to do that to keep further strainoff the unstable, unsupported grid in that state.Texas grid managers saying now if that does happen, they`ll try to limitpower disruptions this time to no more than 12 hours at a time. But on topof what everybody`s already been through, knowing now may yet have thelights go off again is just -- beyond words.But this catastrophe with the power in Texas, it is not a problem that canget fixed with the flip of a switch. The knock-on effects of deprivingmillions of people of power for days on end, those are baked in now. Andit`s going to take a while to get all of those.It starts with water. Tonight, more than 14 million people are under aboil-water notice in the state of Texas. And part of Texas, the facilitiesthat treat the water, that clean people`s water lost power. Because of thatand storm-related issues, that means that 14 million people in Texas don`thave clean drinking water tonight. That`s basically half the state ofTexas.And not having clean drinking water is a very dangerous, very unsustainableproblem. Being told to boil your water when you might not have electricityto power any means of boiling the water is, of course, ridiculous. It`sinsult on top of injury.It turns out people in Texas with dirty, undrinkable water coming out oftheir taps right now in some ways are the lucky ones. One Austin residenttelling "The Wall Street Journal," quote, I`m, like, great. You`re tellingus to boil water but nobody`s talking about the fact that I know one personwho has water and I`m driving to that person`s house right now to get some.What water are we supposed to boil?People in Texas have been bailing water out of swimming pools. They canfind pools that aren`t frozen, they`re bailing water out of swimming poolsto fill their toilets. They`ve been melting snow on outdoor fire pitsbecause the only fire they have is the frozen stuff that came out of thesky.I mean, this is Houston, Texas, America`s fourth largest city. People arewaiting in line with buckets at a local park to fill them up becausesomeone found out there was still water coming out of that one spigot.The entire city of Austin is under a boil-water notice. Thousands of peoplehave dry taps. Austin officials have told people in that city to beprepared to be without water potentially for days. One Austin residenttelling a local NBC affiliate that she stockpiled water last week just incase, filled up one of her bathtubs. But now, she and her family are downto the end of that stockpiled supply, just a half case of bottled waterleft for the family.She said, quote, if we knew this was going to be one day or two days, thatwould be one thing. But not knowing and the possibility of extending longermakes it pretty hard to deal with because we do not know what to plan for.And beyond individual households in Austin, it`s not just households thatuse water, the crisis also is now a huge problem for the city`s hospitals.Last night St. David`s Hospital in Austin had their water cut off. Thehospital had to transfer dozens of patients to other hospitals last night.They discharged some other patients, just told them to go home.The CEO of the hospital says they need water to supply the boiler in thathospital. The boiler heats the hospital. So, losing water was the first oftheir problems. Losing water also meant they couldn`t find boiler, whichmeant the hospital was also losing heat.Today, the hospital brought in a water truck to feed the boiler and to feedthe toilets so they can flush. I mean, this is just a slow-rolling,unmitigated disaster in Texas right now.This was southwest Houston today, people waiting in line for hours in thecold to get propane. This was a line outside a fast-food restaurant inAustin. People don`t just need propane. They don`t just need water. Theyneed food.Fast food restaurants open, this is kind of line you`re getting. A line ofcars stretching all the way down the block. Grocery stores have been withpeople. Some grocery stores were closed for days because they didn`t havepower.Freezing temperatures and rolling power outages have thrown a monkey wrenchin the supply chain for everything. One Austin resident telling the Texas"Tribune" about her recent trip to target. Quote, the store was out ofmeat, eggs, milk almost before I left. Lines were wrapped around the storewhen we arrived. Shelves were almost fully cleared for potatoes, meat, eggsand some dairy.She said her neighbor went to that same store two days later, but it wascompletely out of food. There was no sign that more shipments were on theway, no employees restocking shelves.People living in one of the largest states in the country are living withno electricity, no heat, no water, scrounging for non-potable water and forfood. This has been going on for the better part of the week. It was not inthe -- in the midst of that, it was not until yesterday that the Republicangovernor of Texas, Greg Abbott, held a public press conference to talk tothe people of Texas about what`s been going on, what the state is trying todo to fix it.This is how the "Texas Tribune" summed up what Governor Abbott said at thepress conference. Quote, Abbott provides few details on when Texans`suffering will end as state`s crises mount.Today, Erin Banco at "The Daily Beast" reporting that the federalgovernment had sent Texas 60 industrial-sized generators to help alleviatethe strain on the electrical grid, but she reported that as of thismorning, those generators were, quote, sitting in a staging area in FortWorth, waiting for delivery instructions. Same with 10,000 gallons ofdiesel fuel to fire those generators, sent to Texas by the federalgovernment. Quote, FEMA officials are waiting after are instructions fromTexas officials as to where to send it.While they wait, the federal government has been trying to help. The Bidenadministration has declared a state of emergency in Texas and a state ofemergency in Oklahoma and Louisiana now too. They`ve also been hard hit bythe storms.The president has authorized FEMA to provide hard-hit states withgenerators and supplies. He says they`re ready to fulfill additionalrequests for assistance.In Texas specifically, besides those 60 generators that were reportedlysitting in a warehouse in Fort Worth, FEMA has already sent Texas hundredsof thousands of liters of water, tens of thousands of blankets, andhundreds of thousands of meals.This is a crisis that is absolutely still ongoing.Joining us is Bob Fenton. He is the acting administrator of FEMA in theUnited States. I appreciate you taking time to help us understand what`sgoing on right now. Thanks for taking the time to be here.BOB FENTON, ACTING ADMINISTRATOR, FEMA: Thank you for having me on, Rachel.MADDOW: First, let me know if you need to set me straight, if I`ve saidanything that`s wrong here or that`s out of date or if my reporting ismisconstrued anything. Second of all, I`d like to hear in your words whatthe scale of the FEMA response is right now.FENTON: Well, thank you.What`s happened is a weather event started late last week that causedsignificant impacts to the roadways and then this last weekend started withcold weather and another event that has continued to last, and havingsingle-digit temperatures along the Texas area and most of the state,including the Southern Plains and now moving up to the Eastern Seaboard.So there`s a number of states affected, in addition to Texas, but Texas isone of the worst because it`s so far south, when you look at the buildingcodes down there, it`s really not made for temperatures that we see thatare this low that happen that often. Last time this happened is over 50years ago.So, in addition to the cold temperatures that`s causing significant impactsto individuals and collateral effects to the water systems, to the fuelsystems and what we`re doing now is responding to those to help Texas out.The president, as you said, issued an emergency declaration this weekendthat authorized us to direct the federal government to support the state ofTexas`s needs it may have and we do have a lot of resources down there. Wehave a large warehouse in the Texas area already but we`re sending stuffover from Atlanta, and energizing a lot of our contractors and working witha lot of different groups that would bring assistance to the area to helpthose that are in need.MADDOW: I know that the president`s emergency declaration allows FEMA,which is you, to coordinate disaster relief for all 254 Texas counties.When it comes to coordinating the relief, is it most -- is FEMA focusedmostly on direct aid to people who most need it, the things that I justdescribed, water, blankets, food, that sort of thing, or is yourcoordination of relief also about working with Texas power generatingfacilities and water treatment plants and other systems operators to getthe systems back up and running?FENTON: Well, we`re there to support the state of Texas. They set thepriorities where they want us to focus our resources and where we canprovide assistance. So in this case right now, we`re providing resourcesdirectly to individuals through shelters, warming stations, whether that bewater, meals, blankets, cots, those kind of things.In addition to that, you talked earlier about the generators, we`reproviding to pump stations or other critical infrastructure to get those upand operational, and we`re bring fuel in and other things. In addition tothat, we provide funding to Texas to help them bring in resources.So we could do help in all aspects from individuals to government entitiesto assist the state in helping the private sector if they need help to gettheir equipment up and running or resources need to be brought in thataren`t there right now.MADDOW: Administrator Fenton, I`m going to ask you just to tell me bluntlyjust in human-to-human terms. Is the response working right now?I`m worried when I see reporting like we saw from that report at the "DailyBeast" today that FEMA has succeeded in getting generators into Texas butthey were sitting in a staging area this morning while we`re seeing thehuman suffering in Texas because people don`t have access to power, theydon`t have access to all the things that are made possible, including heat,by access to power.Is this -- I understand the scale of what you`re describing as the efforthere, but is it working or are there problems here?FENTON: Well, this is a significant event to have single-digit temperaturesto hit an area in the United States that`s not used to seeing thattemperature over a prolonged period of time, it`s impacted many that arenot ready for this type of event. So it`s impacted a number of peopleacross not only almost every county in Texas has been impacted in thisevent, which is 20 million something plus people plus other states areimpacted by this.And what`s happened is there have been secondary events. Not only the cold,and Texas has tried to respond by putting up heating stations and openingshelters, by working to assist improving communications and those kinds ofthings. But then you start to have the secondary events of water linebreakages, whether it`s in homes or main line breakages, which is now acollateral effect that we`re dealing with. And up talk about the boil waternotices and the need to provide water which is almost like a second eventthat`s happened and it still cold and this is going to happen through theweekend.So, we are working together with Texas and the local governments to provideresources they need. Individuals need to continue to heed the warnings oflocal government officials. Don`t expose yourself to the cold for longperiods, check on friends and family and make sure that they get to warmingstations if they need to. We need to make sure we don`t lose any more liveshere and we need to make sure that we start re-energizing the criticalinfrastructure to freeway power because that`s eventually going to makethings better.As we do that, there`s going to be significant damage from this event fromthose pipelines that we`re going to have to deal with for weeks ahead andmake sure we`re providing such water and other commodities to help thosethat need it most.MADDOW: Well, I hear you on the scale of the response and what`s needed interms of the people of Texas needing immediate relieve after four daysshivering in the cold. I hope the scale of the response can quickly startto reach the scale of the need.Robert Fenton, acting FEMA administrator, thanks for helping us understandtonight and Godspeed to you and your colleagues.FENTON: Thank you, Rachel. (INAUDIBLE) to everyone in Texas, we`ll be thereto help them through this.MADDOW: All right.Let`s now go to Texas, to Harris County. Harris County is the largestcounty in Texas and the third largest county in the United States. HarrisCounty includes the great city of Houston, and they did have some good newstoday.The county of -- Harris County went from having 1.4 million people withoutpower yesterday to having 20,000 people without power today. A large-scalerestoration of power in Harris County.And having the majority of power restored for the county is a good step butthe county`s top elected official is warning tonight, quote, the lights areon for now in most of Harris county but we are not out of the dark. Shesays most of us are still under boil water notices, we are facing anotherfreeze tonight, meaning Thursday night and we are dealing with shortagesand price gouging. Take steps to keep your family safe.Joining us is Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo, who is the top executive incharge of a county of over 4.5 million people. I`m told Judge Hidalgo justgot off the phone with the governor of Texas.Judge, thank you so much for taking time to be here tonight. I know you arein the middle of it. I appreciate this time.JUDGE LINA HIDALGO, HARRIS COUNTY, TX EXECUTIVE: Thank you.MADDOW: I just spoke with the FEMA administrator live just moments ago. Hetalked mostly about the scale of the challenge, expressing confidence thatFEMA can scale up to support Texas as a federal partner basically in thisresponse. I still feel like the need that we are seeing in Harris Countyand across Texas is far outstripping the scale of the response in terms ofgovernment efforts, federally, statewide, locally. It just seems like it anoverwhelming crisis.How are you feeling tonight and what are you hearing from the governor?HIDALGO: It absolutely and has been an overwhelming crisis. I just actuallyrecently got updated numbers on the hypothermia deaths, just the tip.Iceberg, but seven very sad stories just here in the county as the fog ofwar settles a little bit and we get details.We`ve seen cascading impacts, you know, water, carbon monoxide poisoning,pipes bursting, roofs caving in, hospitals with low water pressure, allkind of issues. And so, we -- you know, take care of ourselves as best wecan locally. We`ve got committed and creative emergency responseprofessionals.But part of my discussion with the governor is how we can together advocatefor an emergency disaster declaration for the federal government and that`sthe discussion I had today with the White House as well, as FEMA, is thisfar beyond the ability of local governments, for example, to adequatelyrecover from.MADDOW: Houston is one of the places where I should mention, hospitals havebeen hit. I`ve read reports about pipes bursting in multiple Houstonhospitals. As they struggle without heat, without water. Obviously, theidea of having no water pressure, no ability to flush toilets or run waterto clean anything in a hospital is a nightmare scenario.What can you tell us about that status in Harris County and thecircumstances of your hospitals right now?HIDALGO: So we lost power very early Monday morning, about 1:00 in themorning. That meant many of the generators that keep that water pressuregoing were down. That then allows bacteria to seep in the water causingboil water notices.Right now, as about an hour ago that I got my briefing, we have 222 citiesand municipal utility districts within Harris County under boil waternotices. That`s about 3.3 million people who cannot drink their water. Asthe roads become less impassable, at least they can try to go out andpurchase it. But again, we`ve got a lot of grocery stores that are notoperating.Many folks of course have missed a whole week`s work, even amidst apandemic. And they`re facing all of these same cascading effects. Rightnow, the main concern is the water situation.MADDOW: In terms of Harris County`s power supply, obviously, we did see bigprogress of the electricity coming back. But you were among the mostprominent voices in the state warning that even in a big, well-resourcedcounty like Harris County, that is not getting the county out of the dark.That there may be additional power cuts, that the long-term turnaround inthis water crisis that you`re describing may take quite a bit of time, evenas the power is back on.For people who have friends and loved ones in Harris County right now, inand around Houston, in that part of Texas, what should they expect in termsof ongoing hardship these next few days? It`s going to be another hardfreeze tonight.HIDALGO: We have to acknowledge the good news and being down to 22,000homes without power is great. But I also am not in the business of raisingfalse hope. The challenge was that the state agency, this ERCOT, did nothave enough power generation to sustain the crisis. Their power plants cameoffline with the cold.We`re about to see cold -- that extreme level of cold again. And so theymay buckle again under that weather. We`re about to see high demand again.They may buckle under that high demand.That is not an expectation that we have, but I at least want to leave thatpossibility open that there may be some hiccups as these folks that verymuch failed for several nights get everything together. And I don`t wantfolks to be, you know, extremely alarmed if there are some smaller outagesas we get out of this.Now, the broader impacts we are helping to address as best we can, we`reworking with our community partners, it`s all hands on deck. So I do thinkthat things are looking up -- they`re definitely looking up, I know folkshave been concerned. It has been a catastrophic, just tragic few nights anddays for the community and we just need to recognize that like with anydisaster, recovery takes a while. It`s not perfectly smooth and there`sgoing to be some setbacks on the way to that progress.MADDOW: Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo, the top elected official incharge of the largest county in Texas. God bless you and your colleagues. Iknow that it has been a bunch of sleepless nights already and will continueto be as you try to address this crisis. Stay in touch with us and let usknow what we can do in terms of getting the word out to the nationalaudience. Good luck.HIDALGO: Thank you.MADDOW: All right. I`ll tell you, my colleague Lawrence O`Donnell is goingto have much, much more on the situation in Texas in the next hour,including -- and over the course of the night tonight at MSNBC, we`restaying on this.One of the things that is very worrying in Texas, even in places wherewe`re seeing the power come back on is the crushing emotional blow it`sgoing to be when after the power finally comes back on in a lot of placestoday and tonight, it may yet go down again with this fragile grid in Texasand more very cold weather coming in overnight tonight. That is going to bedifficult, but this water -- the access to clean water issue is going totake a long time to dig out of, and it`s very, very dangerous.Keep Texas in your prayers tonight.All right. Much more to come tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: His name was Carmine Galante, but his mob nickname was "The Cigar."He was apparently almost never seen without a cigar clamped between histeeth. That was his mafia handle, Carmine "The Cigar" Galante.And In the 1970s, Galante rose through the ranks, kind of killed his waythrough the ranks to become at one point the de facto chief of the Bonannocrime family. Galante was implicated in multiple murders and in drugtrafficking on an enormous scale. In one of his drug related trials, theyhad a hard time keeping a jury on the case after individual jurors keptgetting phone calls threatening their lives.The jury foreman somehow ended up falling down a long flight of stairs andbreaking his back. On top of all the other crimes in which he wasimplicated and for which he was convicted, perhaps the best window intoCarmine Galante`s approach to his upward mobility in the mob is the factthat upon being released from federal prison after a 12-year stint thatended in the early `70s, one of Carmine Galante`s first acts when he gotout of prison after 12 years was that he blew up a mausoleum containing theremains of one of his mob rivals, a guy who had died the previous yearwhile carmine was still locked up.See, Carmine was in prison, so he never got a chance to whack the guy whilethe guy was alive. So once Carmine got out of prison, he whacked the guyanyway at the cemetery where he already laid dead. He blew up hismausoleum. Better late than never.That was 1974. I think five years later, in 1979, Carmine "The Cigar"Galante was eating in the back patio at a place called Joe and Mary`sItalian American restaurant in Bushwick, Brooklyn. He was eating a mealwith two other guys from the Bonanno crime family.And on that hot day in July in Bushwick, Brooklyn, at that nice restaurant,enter guys in ski masks carrying multiple guns, and Carmine Galante and theother Bonanno crime family guys who are eating with him, all three of them,get killed in a massive hail of gunfire at this restaurant in Brooklyn.Carmine Galante was photographed dead at the scene of the crime with acigar still clamped between his teeth.The man ultimately prosecuted for his murder, I kid you not, his name wasWhack-Whack. His name was Bruno Indelicato, which means the guy didn`t evenneed a nickname. His mother probably named him Bruno Indelicatospecifically to make it too superfluous to even consider nicknaming thatyoung man.But the mob in the `70s didn`t care. Bruno Indelicato was called Whack-Whack, and he was charged and convicted of Carmine Galante`s murder and themurder of the other two Bonanno crime family guys who are at the table withhim at that day at that restaurant.Each of those three murders was treated as a constituent element of BrunoIndelicato`s ultimate conviction on racketeering charges. What isracketeering? Right?It means basically not just crime but crime as part of an organizedenterprise. That`s why they use it against the mob so much, considerablytougher penalties for crimes that get prosecuted under that racketeeringumbrella.Here`s the thing, though, Mr. Whack-Whack, Bruno Indelicato, had a reallygood lawyer at the time who eventually argued in his case, as it`s made itsway through the court system, that although this looked like a anincredibly black and white case, literally, this is Whack-Whack puts on aski mask and shoots the cigar at an Italian restaurant in Bushwick, right,it doesn`t sort of get more black and white in that in terms of mob hits.But his lawyer was good enough to complicate the circumstances consideredby the law to a considerable and lasting extent. His lawyer used that crazycase to force an entire 12-judge panel of the federal appeals court in NewYork, the Second Circuit, to reckon for the first time in that case, inBruno`s case, with the real specific legal definition of racketeering.Racketeering had been used in the law for quite some time but it was thatcase that led to the first legal live tested specific rigorous definitionof racketeering under U.S. federal law. That lawyer for Bruno, Mr. Whack-Whack, the lawyer for him who turned that gangland, blood bath case into alegal landmark that still matters today, that changed forever the wayracketeering is used in the U.S. federal law, he`s still around.That lawyer as a prosecutor and then as a defense attorney litigated dozensof high profile crime cases, including some of the highest profile cases inthe worst of the mafia wars in New York City. As a prosecutor, he ran boththe appellate unit and criminal unit at SDNY in two different stints inthat storied U.S. attorney`s office. He ran both of those divisions atSDNY.With all of that experience as a prosecutor, he`s now one of the highestprofile, big deal, white collar defense lawyers at one of the fanciest lawfirms in New York, a firm called Paul, Weiss, and that lawyer just got anew job."The New York Times" reporting tonight that earlier this month, he wassworn in as a special assistant D.A., which seems like an unlikely titlefor a guy with that kind of pedigree and that kind history, but that`s whathe is now. He`s sworn in as special assistant D.A. at the stateprosecutor`s office in Manhattan. He has taken leave from his very fancyprivate firm and instead taken a temporary gig to assist prosecutors inthat office.He has upended his whole life in private practice, put everything in onhold. He`s been sworn in with a special status. Also, he can work withstate prosecutors in New York on precisely one case. And that one case isthe investigation under way in that office of the Trump Organization.This is the ongoing criminal investigation of former President Trump andhis business. It reportedly includes allegations of tax fraud, bank fraud,insurance fraud. It started with an investigation related to the hush moneycampaign finance felonies for which Michael Cohen went to prison and whichled prosecutors to describe President Trump as individual one, anunindicted coconspirator.That investigation by state prosecutors has since reportedly expanded todayinclude wider allegations about basically the president and his companyallegedly keeping two sets of books for various Trump properties, includingTrump Tower so they could, according to investigators, potentially defraudtax authorities and defraud banks and defraud insurance companies by usingtwo different sets of books with two different sets of valuations for allthe Trump major properties."The Times" reporting tonight that the case has recently generated morethan a dozen new subpoenas. This is also the case that produced subpoenasto financial firms for personal and business records and tax recordsrelated to the former president. Lower courts have ruled those subpoenasare valid and should be enforced and the state prosecutors should getaccess to those documents. Both CNN and "The New York Times" are reportingin depth tonight on the mystery surrounding what`s happening with thosesubpoenas and what`s happening with that case in the United States SupremeCourt right now.This New York state investigation of President Trump is one of two livecriminal investigations that he`s facing that we know about. One of them isthe criminal investigation that has just been opened into his conduct inGeorgia, in terms of him pressuring Georgia state officials to basicallycorrupt the election outcome in that state.The other is this New York investigation into potential financial crimes,tax fraud, bank fraud, insurance fraud. Well, those New York prosecutorsneed the president`s financial records in order to press this case, andthey say they need his tax records in order to press this case. They haveissued subpoenas for those records. Lower courts have said they should getthem, but since October, they`ve been waiting on the Supreme Court, theUnited States Supreme Court to find out if they`re getting those recordsthat have been subpoenaed.Lower courts say they should. The Supreme Court is just sitting on it. TheSupreme Court somewhat inexplicably sitting on this request to deal withthat matter for four months now. It is an unusual and as yet unexplaineddelay from the Supreme Court that is having material consequences for whatseems like a very live, very active, and newly ambitious investigation acriminal investigation of the former president in New York, even as thatNew York prosecutor`s office drafts in new, serious outside fire power toassemble that case against Mr. Trump, the Supreme Court is sitting on thedocuments that they need for their investigation.Meanwhile, the wheels of justice do keep turning. This, for example, is apeek at the FBI`s main Twitter feed even just tonight. The FBI multipletimes per day now is churning out new basically digital "wanted" postersfor people captured on tape taking part in the violent sacking of theCapitol by a pro-Trump mob that mounted that assault on the U.S. governmenton January 6th. They put out new pictures, new basically "wanted" picturesevery single day.And the president`s culpability for that grotesque crime remains at centerstage, particularly as more and more of his followers get arrested andcharged every day, so many of them telling the court after they`ve beencharged the reason they were there is because they thought the presidentwas telling them to be there, right? He stays at center stage as long aspeople are getting arrested as long as the FBI keeps asking the public formore and more help finding these Trump rioters so they can get arrested.As "The Daily Beast" reports today, President Trump is telling people atMar-a-Lago now that he`s worried he`s going to be investigated and sued forthe rest of his life. We reported earlier this week on the first civillawsuit brought against the president for the January 6th attack, a suitbrought by Congressman Bennie Thompson, the chairman of the HomelandSecurity Committee.I say it`s the first lawsuit brought against the president for the event ofJanuary 6th. I can tell you right now it will not be the last.Joining us next, I`m here to say for the interview tonight, is the veryhigh profile, very accomplished outside counsel who was brought in to helpcoordinate the impeachment trial of the president for the January 6thattack.His name is Barry Berke and he joins us for his first television interviewsince this all went down. I`m really looking forward to talking with him.That`s next.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: At the conclusion of President Trump`s second impeachment trial,the House impeachment managers took a team photo. Lead manager Jamie Raskinis there on the far right side, along with the rest of the team whorecognized, Ted Lieu, David Cicilline, Madeleine Dean, Congressman Castro,Delegate Plaskett, Congressman Swalwell, Congressman Neguse in the back.We know all their names and faces.Take a look at the very tall guy in the back. That is another member of theteam, who is not a member of Congress. That is Barry Berke, chiefimpeachment counsel to the House managers. He helped craft those gut-punchlegal arguments that you heard them all make. You might remember he playeda similar role during Donald Trump`s first impeachment trial with the HouseJudiciary Committee.Joining us now for "The Interview" is Barry Berke. This is his firsttelevision interview since the trial resolved.Mr. Berke, thank you so much for this time. It`s a real pleasure to haveyou here tonight.BARRY BERKE, : Rachel, it`s a pleasure to be here. Thank you.MADDOW: I want to give you a chance to sort of set the record straight andhelp us understand from your perspective the import of the trial.Obviously, the president was acquitted. There were 57 votes to convict himand they needed ten more than that to get a conviction.But all these Republican senators who voted to acquit him basicallyexplained that they voted to acquit on a technicality, they didn`t believethey had jurisdiction to vote to convict him. That`s I think the Americantakeaway, he got let off on a technicality but he did it.Is that how you saw it from inside the process?BARRY BERKE, FORMER CHIEF IMPEACHMENT COUNSEL: I saw it very differently,Rachel. I understand why you say it that way. But remember, the issue ofjurisdiction had been resolved, so that for the jurors to say they`rerelying on jurisdiction was for them to violate their oath.I was in that Senate chamber every single day and our goal was to try acase like we were prosecuting a violent crime and I felt with ourextraordinary House managers, our incredible lead manager Jamie Raskin, weproved that case. We proved with overwhelming evidence that formerPresident Donald Trump inflamed his base over time by telegram lie that theelection was stolen and rigged, he incited them by telling them to Stop theSteal, which was something he said they made up, he made it up.He then encouraged violence leading up to the day of January 6th so he knewwhen he used those words of violence, he would be setting them on a violentpath, which they did. And when they started to attack the Capitol, ourelected officials, the brave officers, he further incited them by repeatingthe lie, further attacking his vice president who was subject to their ire(ph), and he did it repeatedly.I looked at those jurors, all 100 of them, and I saw they were fixated onthe evidence. And I believe in my heart if the jurors had the courage to betrue to their oath and vote true to their conscience, we would haveconvicted by a large margin.MADDOW: The issue of the president`s culpability is still banging aroundlike a live wire right now. There`s going to be -- it looks like -- itlooks like there`s going to be a 9/11-style, truth-finding commission inCongress to try to get to the very -- the core foundation of the factualevidence here.There`s also the question, as you just described it, you said youprosecuted this essentially as a violent crime. There is still a livequestion as to whether or not there is enough evidence to look at this as apotential criminal act by the president that should be handled in a courtof criminal law. That was raised, in fact, by the Senate Minority LeaderMitch McConnell.How do you feel about that?BERKE: I feel there is certainly evidence that should be the basis forinvestigation of the president`s conduct. He had knowledge throughout andhe -- most crimes at the heart have lies. When you talk about the New Yorkinvestigation, bank fraud, insurance fraud, tax fraud, those are all lies.We saw at this trial that the president was prepared to lie in order tointerrupt our democracy, to try to prevent the peaceful transfer of power.He was prepared to lie in order to further incite an insurrection. So, Ithink all that conduct would be fair game.And I`ll say this, Rachel, I do think that in our country, we generallygive the benefit of the doubt to a former president and maybe if theyengage in wrongdoing, we should not prosecute them after they leave office.I think given the president`s extraordinary conduct is unconscionablebehavior in causing over 140 police officers to be injured, people killed,our elected officials en masse so close to being in harm`s way that he haslost that benefit of the doubt.So, I think you will see the commission look more deeply at some of theevidence that we have gathered but did not present at trial because wedidn`t need to. I think you will see the criminal investigations go onabout this, and looking to his conduct on January 6th. And I think theother criminal investigations related to his seeking to intimidate andthreaten Georgia election officials to find votes that didn`t exist, thelies that would be the basis for a crime for anyone else if they did it inconnection with bank loans or other financial transactions.I do think this trial opens that whole Pandora`s Box for president DonaldTrump because he engaged in conduct where he misused his power in such aforceful way and the harm was so great. And I walked the halls of thecapital every day to the Senate floor and pass the victims of his attackand people who suffered and are still suffered and people who committedsuicide because they were so traumatized by trying to defend the Capitol.This is all because of one man.So I feel that I was part of something that was a great success, I`m veryproud to have worked with our house manager and lead managers to provebeyond any doubt that president Donald Trump instigated this insurrection,he did it for his own personal benefit to try to prevent the peacefultransfer of power and did it despite the great harm he was causing and withknowledge he was causing it.So, I think this changes everything. So, while we did not have all thesenators who voted I think the way they knew they should have voted, Istill think this will have a huge effect on the future of Donald Trump andthe future of the Republican Party and, again, I was humbled to have beenpart of it.MADDOW: Yeah, this idea of the impeachment trial and the evidence youcollected, including some of it you did not present, being a sort ofPandora`s box for the future of this president, I think, cannot beoverstated.Barry Berke, chief impeachment counsel to the House managers, duringPresident Trump`s impeachment trial -- Barry, thank you for your serviceand thank you for helping us understand it tonight. It`s nice to see you.Thank you.BERKE: Thank you so much, Rachel. Nice to see you.MADDOW: All right. Much more ahead. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: To make this work, NASA scientists had to send the "Perseverance",a Martin rover basically the sizes of a Mazda Miata, they had to send it300 million miles through space. That was the easy part.The spacecraft carrying the rover was going about 12,000 miles an hour whenit got to the Martian atmosphere, then in the span of just a few minutes,perfectly time, it had slow down from 12,000 miles an hour to a snail`sspace so it wouldn`t bullet into the surface of Mars and explode on impact.It worked, it made that descent all while enduring temperatures of morethan 2,300 degrees Fahrenheit, the equivalent of traveling through moltenlava. Then it had to stick the landing, which is no small thing when you`retrying to park this thing from 300 million miles away in an ancient lakebed littered with cliffs and craters and sand dunes and all sorts of otherthings that could trip it up.NASA scientists figured out a way to make all of this happen. They freakingdid it.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Touchdown confirmed. "Perseverance" safely on thesurface of Mars, ready to begin seeking the signs of past life.(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Now that "Perseverance" has landed safely in its new home. It`sgoing to search for evidence of ancient life on Mars. It`s going to collectsamples that will eventually be returned to Earth by the 2030s. Startgetting ready now.The "Perseverance" is equipped with instruments that will attempt toconvert Martian carbon dioxide into oxygen, which could, of course, be agame changer in terms of future human exploration of Mars.The Perseverance also traveled all the way over there with a littlehelicopter tucked under its belly. If everything goes as planned, thatlittle chopper will take part in the first powered flight on anotherplanet.We can send a rover to a planet 300 million miles away and land it like afeather. We can create oxygen over there. We can fly mini helicopters inthe Martian sky that work for us and send us things.We can`t provide water and power to people in Texas when it`s cold. It`s anabsolutely flabbergasting day in the news today.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: That`s going to do it for us tonight. Tomorrow, something to watchfor, tomorrow, the United States of America will officially rejoin theParis Climate Accord. Back to the land of the living.We`ll see you again tomorrow.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>