Summary:MSNBC`s continuing coverage of the coronavirus pandemic. Millions inTexas remain under boil water advisories. Georgia Republicans introducedelections bill liming early, absentee voting. President Biden assuresEuropean leader of commitment to alliances.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST, "ALL IN": Under conditions of extreme stress anduncertainty, sometimes making the wrong ones. And then, there`s -- are youbeing honest and transparent about what you are doing? And it`s like thefirst are much more forgivable than not the latter, which has been sort ofone of the stories of this, broadly not just in this case.Jesse McKinley, who is doing great reporting on this for "The Times", theAlbany bureau, thank you so much for your time.JESSE MCKINLEY, THE NEW YORK TIMES: Of course.HAYES: That is "ALL IN" on this Friday night.THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now with Ali Velshi, in for Rachel.Good evening, Ali.ALI VELSHI, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Have yourself a great weekend.Thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. Rachel`s got the night off,but she`s going to be back on Monday.And for a Friday, in the dark days of winter, there`s certainly a lot goingon today.Let`s start with the team that President Biden is trying to assemble andtry is the operative word here. A month into his presidency, fewer thanhalf of Joe Biden`s cabinet nominees have been confirmed. Only sevencabinet officials have been seated. The Senate still has not voted on theother 16. Four of them are still waiting to get a hearing.And tonight, they have hit another bump in the road. Neera Tanden is JoeBiden`s nominee to run the Office of Management and Budget. She`s worked onnumerous Democratic presidential campaigns. She worked in the Obamaadministration.Now, Republicans have said Tanden should be disqualified to run OMB,essentially, because her tweets about them were too mean, which is prettyrich coming from some of Donald Trump`s most ardent supporters. Now,President Biden`s cabinet nominees. They don`t need Republican support topass but with the Senate in a 50-50 split, without any Republican on-board,Biden`s team can`t afford to lose any Democratic support, either. Andthat`s where we get the speed bump today.Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia announced tonight that hewill not vote for Neera Tanden to lead OMB. Zero Republicans right now areexpected to support her nomination. And so, barring some kind of surpriseon that side of the aisle, Joe Biden`s nominee to lead the Office ofManagement and Budget appears to be DOA.Barack Obama`s nominee to run the Commerce Department had to withdrawalfrom consideration, in 2009, for this reason, due to lack of support in theSenate. Same with Donald Trump`s pick to lead the Labor Department. AsRachel likes to say, watch this space.We have also got our eyes on Texas tonight where tens of thousands ofpeople are still without power in what is turning out to be a slow-rollingcatastrophe for the state. Millions of people in Texas are under a boil-water advisory. That`s complications from these rolling-power outages thathave made the water unsafe to drink for millions of people because thewater-filtration plants don`t have power. We are going to have a livereport out of Texas, in just a moment.But also, today, we got a 591-page document, reading material to cozy upwith this weekend. House Democrats have released the long-awaited text oftheir COVID-relief bill.Now, this bill would provide qualifying Americans with $1,400 reliefchecks. It would extend the federal-unemployment benefits. It would providemuch-needed assistance to small businesses.The bill provides much to the states, to speed up the vaccine effort andhelp schools reopen safely. It also calls for increasing the minimum wageto $15 an hour, over the course of a few years. The total price of thepackage is $1.9 trillion, which many Republicans say is too expensive.So, today, President Biden addressed those concerns about the price tag ofthe COVID-relief bill. He said he was open to discussions about how to makethe bill better, and more cost-effective. But he dared Republicans to bespecific about how they want to cut costs because lowering the price ofthat bill means depriving Americans of a much-needed, financial lifeline.It means denying states what they need to start returning back to normal.So what, exactly, what Republicans cut back?(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Let me ask them. What would theyhave me cut? What would they have me leave out? Should we not invest $20billion to vaccinate the nation? Should we not invest $290 million toextend unemployment insurance for the 11 million Americans who areunemployed so they can get by? While they get back to work?Should we not invest $50 billion to help small businesses stay open, whentens of thousands have had to close permanently?Pass the American Rescue Plan, 40 million Americans will lose -- losenutritional assistance through a program we call SNAP, the old food-stampprogram. Do we not invest $3 million -- $3 billion to keep families fromgoing hungry?This is United States of America, for God`s sake. We invest in people whoare in need.(END VIDEOI CLIP)VELSHI: President Biden made those remarks, today, at a Pfizer plant inMichigan, where they are manufacturing one of the two COVID vaccines thatare currently approved for use here in the United States. He got a tour ofthe facility, and he reiterated his promise that the United States wouldhave enough vaccine on hand for the entire country, by the end of July.It was just shy of a year ago that this nightmare began. And it comes atthe end of a week of what was really sustained good COVID news. The UnitedStates saw 29 percent decrease in COVID cases this week, compared to thesame time seven days ago. This is the steepest, one-week decline since thepandemic began.The director of the CDC said today that COVID cases have been on the steadydecline for the past five weeks in a row. It`s too early to say exactly whywe are seeing such a steep decline. It could be a passing rush of casesfrom the holiday season. It could be stricter-mask wearing and socialdistancing, the earthly effects of the vaccine. Could be all of the above.It`s going to be a while longer, though, before we can let our guard downbecause we need more vaccines in arms before we do that. And today, therewas promising news on that front as well. One of the logistical hurdles hasbeen keeping it cold enough. Both, the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines must bekept at freezing temperature before they are put into syringes, otherwise,the doses will spoil.Right now, the Pfizer vaccine, in particular, has to be kept remarkablycold. Somewhere, between minus-112 and minus-76 degree. But that might bechanging. Pfizer`s announced that its data shows the vaccine may not needto be stored in an ultra-cold freezer in order to be effective. But could,instead, be kept in a normal freezer, the kind that are more commonly inuse.Now, this would significantly untangle some of the logistical hurdles thathave slowed down the vaccine distribution, so far. And Pfizer hasofficially asked the FDA for permission to allow its vaccine to be storedat a higher temperature.Right now, the Pfizer vaccine requires two doses, and on that front, we`vegot, yet, more promising data. A peer-reviewed study out of Israel foundtoday that just one dose of the Pfizer vaccine was 85 percent effective atpreventing symptomatic cases of COVID-19, 85 percent immunity. That`spractically the whole ball game.The faster we could vaccinate people with a vaccine that`s 85 percenteffective, the faster we could achieve herd immunity and that`s what theyhave been experimenting with in Great Britain.In the United Kingdom, they are waiting several months to administer seconddoses instead of the recommended several weeks like we are doing here inthe United States. The idea is to try and offer a lower -- lower level ofimmunity to a larger group of people. by vaccinating more people, once.Instead, of fewer people, twice.That decision was controversial, at the time. But this new data out ofIsrael seems to vindicate that strategy, which begs the question, should webe considering that, too? Joining us to help make sense of this is someonewho is going to advise the White House in making these decisions. AndySlavitt is the White House senior adviser on the COVID-19 response.Andy, this is the first time we have spoken since your appointment. Thankyou for -- for joining me tonight. Can we talk a little bit about this?We were told, in the beginning, that`s really important that you get thevaccine, the first dose. You get the second dose, at prescribed timeinterval. You certainly can`t mix it with another vaccine.And now, we are getting this evidence about greater levels of protectionthan we thought. Explain this to me as an expert. Is -- what`s the math onthat? Is it better to -- to -- to inject more people with one dose than itis to inject fewer people with two doses?ANDY SLAVITT, WHITE HOUSE COVID RESPONSE TEAM SENIOR ADVISOR: Well, good tobe with you, Ali.Let me give you the bottom line, first. The bottom line, first, is thateverybody should still be getting their second dose. Now, it is good newsto hear and the new data comes in.And I think, you know, I spoke with the FDA today. I spoke with NIH today.They pore over new data that comes in, you know, multiple studies.But the thing, I think, to keep in mind is not just the efficacy of thevaccine but the durability of the vaccine. And with -- with only one shotof Pfizer and Moderna, the current view is that the -- that the vaccinejust doesn`t last long enough. So the second dose is really, reallyimportant.The other thing that Dr. Fauci mentioned to me, today, is that with thesecond vaccine, you have a much-better chance against variants. The secondvaccine of Pfizer, as -- as we know, does pretty well against -- againstthe South African variant. And all of the vaccines, we know, do very wellagainst the U.K. variant. But that`s with two doses.So they are going to continue to look at the data. But right now, peopleshouldn`t be confused. The current recommendation from the FDA and it willbe, for some time, is to take two, not one.VELSHI: Andy, let`s talk about that term you just used, durability. We areapproaching a year, from the first case, first widespread cases. And, boy,last March and April and May were a really difficult time. So there arepeople who got coronavirus, then, who are now approaching a year.How -- how effective -- how long do we believe these viruses last, at themoment?SLAVITT: Well, the antibody protection, we know, wanes. And -- and how longit lasts. Well, we can`t precisely say but we do know that it -- that itlasts at least 90 days.And at six months to nine months, it`s not as clear. What we, also, know,anecdotally, is that some of the variants, potentially the one from SouthAfrica, the one from -- from Brazil. There may not be antibody protectionfrom -- from a first dose. That`s why the recommendation, of course, isthat people still wear masks. Why people who have had COVID should stillget vaccinated, because the vaccines offer the strongest protection.VELSHI: Andy, let`s talk -- let`s talk a little bit about the rate at whichpeople are being vaccinated. We are at about 1.6 million doses a day. Butit seems that, if we were not constrained by supply, we could be at ahigher number than that.SLAVITT: Yeah. I mean, we are going to continue to ramp up the productionof vaccines, and states are getting better and better at being able to --to move through the vaccines that they have.You know, when -- when we got here on January 20th, we didn`t have enoughvaccines. There weren`t enough -- there were no vaccines in inventory. Wehadn`t, yet, ordered enough and purchased enough vaccines for the Americanpublic. The president directed us to do that.There weren`t enough vaccination sites. And there weren`t enoughvaccinators. We have taken action, on all of those and as a result, sinceJanuary 20th, we have increased the amount of vaccines we have shipped tostates, by 60 percent. We have also been -- we also started retail-pharmacyprogram. We`re setting up 100 community-vaccination sites.And -- and we`re moving vaccines into community-health centers, to makesure that we get the equity, not just that we get more people vaccinatedbut, that we get people fairly vaccinated, including those that are most atrisk, in vulnerable communities. So that`s a lot of progress but we knowit`s not fast enough.We know that we are still in a shortage situation. Be very blunt. We aregoing to be in a shortage situation for some matter of time, probably,measured in months. Not likely, weeks. Certainly, not more than --certainly, not beyond the middle of the year.And until that time, we know there is going to be more people that wantvaccines than we have vaccines available.VELSHI: Andy, good to see you again. Thank you for joining us tonight.Andy Slavitt is the White House senior adviser on the COVID-19 response. Weappreciate your time tonight. Thanks, Andy.Well, another part of the Biden administration COVID response that isgetting extra attention this week is how the storms are delayingdistribution. The storms that are pummeling the country have delayeddistribution of 6 million doses of the vaccine. But while those problemsare expected to be dealt with in the coming days, residents of Texas andother southern states could be feeling the effects of this weather formonths to come.After living without power and heat for days on end, something as basic aswater is now a major issue in the state. In Harris County, which is home toHouston, county officials say tens of thousands of buildings have burstpipes. Not only causing extensive-property damage and flooding, but also,making it hard to get access to clean, drinkable water.And look at what happened in San Antonio. This was the scene last nightafter a fire broke out within the flooring of an apartment building, justoutside the city. Flames, quickly, consumed the entire building. After afew hours, the building collapsed.But not before cars, parked on the street and in front of the building,also, caught fire, eventually, forcing residents of other nearby buildingsto evacuate. Dozens of firefighters were on the scene throughout the nighttrying to tame this blaze. But once again, access to water became theissue. When they went to tap the nearby fire hydrants, they were allfrozen. They were basically useless. The water in them didn`t come out.They had to call on dozens of water tender trucks from across the regionfor reinforcement. Even still, hours passed before they were able to putout the flames. One firefighter told me today this is a firefighter`s worstnightmare. You are there on the scene and you can`t put the fire out.That`s the situation in Texas right now as much of the state has been incrisis every day this week. Millions of residents are still under boiled-water notices. Residents have to boil tap water before consuming it, whichmight work in a pinch if the taps worked, if water came out, if pipesweren`t burst.People have been forced to wait in line to fill containers with the waterthey need for their families given their pipes have been shut or broken.Twenty percent of San Antonio still has no water pressure. Meanwhile, morethan 100,000 people in the state are still without power and heat.Temperatures were, once again, below freezing throughout much of the statelast night as they have been all week.People have been doing everything they can to get warm, wrapping themselvesin winter gear and blankets, burning paper and artwork as kindling,sleeping in their cars, turning on their car engines, indoors, to try towarm up which is incredibly dangerous. That has caused a spike in carbon-monoxide poisoning. At least five people have died from it.Texas is in crisis. Much of this was possibly avoidable. We knew weeks agothis winter storm was headed straight for Texas. Texas never designed itspower grid to withstand the high-demand extreme winter weather that theyget. But the board of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, ERCOT, metahead of the storm. They said they were ready for winterization, that theywere ready for the storm.This is how the president and chief-executive officer of ERCOT began theboard meeting on February the 9th.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)BILL MAGNESS, PRESIDENT & CEO, ERCOT: And one thing I want to say before Ireally get into the presentation is it it`s actually going to be winterhere, pretty soon. As many of you and those of you in Texas know, we dohave a cold front coming this way. We`ll probably see our winter peak laterthis week or in the very early part of next week, and operations has issuedan operating-condition notice just to make sure everyone is up to speedwith their winterization. And we`re ready for the several days of prettyfrigid temperatures to come our way.So, more on that, over the next few days. But it does look like we willhave a little bit of winter weather to contend with during the course ofthe rest of this week. So, I want to go onto the next slide, if we couldafter that.(END AUDIO CLIP)VELSHI: A little bit of winter weather to contend with. We`re ready. Nextslide, if we could.The head of ERCOT made that statement about the then-upcoming storm. Tookhim 40 seconds. That`s all he needed to relay the message about the energygrid`s preparedness for the storm, 40 seconds.One of the many Texas officials outraged by this story is county judge, KPGeorge. A judge in Texas the top-elected official in a county. Fort Bend,Texas, is just outside of Houston.Earlier today, KP George, Judge George, tweeted: Forty seconds. Years ofderegulation and lack of care led to this abject failure.Judge KP George also took a shot at state officials like Governor Abbottand Ted Cruz, writing, ERCOT, brought to you by the people who are blamingwindmills, vacationing in Cancun and saying Texans chose blackouts insteadof federal partnerships.Joining me now from Fort Bend County, a huge county right next to Houstonis Judge KP George.Judge George, I appreciate your time tonight. This is what you callgaslighting for people who don`t understand the term.When you go out, and you tell somebody something that`s a lie, to distractfrom whatever it is that you are trying to distract them for. The idea thatTexans chose not to be part of a larger grid because they`d rather befreezing and cold and without water, than have federal involvement inenergy.The idea that it was alternative energy that caused this. Because of frozenwindmills, you don`t have power in Texas. It`s gaslighting.JUDGE KP GEORGE, FORT BEND COUNTY, TX EXECUTIVE: It is. It is gas lighting.And -- and I tell you this. A 90-year-old senior citizens calling me sayingI am on my last oxygen cylinder. A mother calling me and saying that my 4-week-old baby, I am driving around in a car to keep that baby warm.And then, people struggling with burst pipes. And people struggling to keepthemselves warm, and 850,000 of my residents, I don`t think not even asingle one said or agreed with what that statement is all about.VELSHI: You also have a very strange situation. You got the governor andothers making these statements. And then, you have got the situation whereyour -- your senator, Ted Cruz, got himself mired in a situation, which he-- which he left the state.What is -- what does the solution actually look like in Texas? What needsto be done right now to get people out of the emergency that they`re in, inwhich people are actually dying? And what needs to be done -- done in thelonger term, to accept the fact that you are going to have weatherinstances like this and you have to be prepared?GEORGE: I just -- I just think, you don`t -- you don`t need to be a rocketscientist to figure this out. Also, understand that you mentioned, sir,before, we are Lone Star State. And I just wanted to very -- be very clear.I just wanted to say I am so proud of being in Texas. We love Texas. Andit`s a -- it`s a unique state.But at the same time, when it comes to this kind of weather events, wecannot manage it alone. And -- and also, right now, I`m -- I`m calling fora full investigation. And Texans need to know why this happened. What isthe reason why it happened?And -- and there should be some kind of answers coming. And also, Iunderstand, that our legislators are in session right now and nextThursday, I believe they will take hearing on this issue. In between,Governor Abbott issued investigation on to ERCOT. And also, we asked the --the leadership to resign.But he appointed these people. And obviously, I believe should have knownbetter. And so, my point is I am right here at the ground. You know, I am -- I`m the -- I`m the boot on the ground. And I am seeing this.My citizens are calling me with these issues, I mentioned. And I`m -- I`mgoing to the shelters, and I am setting up warming centers. And -- and I`mtalking to people. And they are saying, last night is the first time, in --in a week, I -- I slept.Hearing from an 80-year-old person, it is heartbreaking. And, you know,Texas is a unique place. But this is -- this -- many of this would haveavoided.VELSHI: Judge George, good to see you. Thank you for joining us. Our wishesare with you and the people of Texas that you stay warm. Had a couple poweroutages in the northeast, this winter, and we`re much-better prepared forit but they are not pleasant under any circumstances, to be cold in youropen own home and then to not have water.GEORGE: Yeah. I, personally, got my -- my home flooded. So -- so I canunderstand exactly how my residents feel.VELSHI: Yeah.GEORGE: Thank you.VELSHI: Our heart goes out to you and our thoughts are with you and oursupport is with you. Fort Bend County judge, KP George, thank you for yourtime tonight. We wish you the best of luck.A lot more to get here to tonight. Up next. An example of Republicans inanother state trying to pull some slight of hand and stack the deck intheir favor. Stay with us for that story.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)VELSHI: Over the past year, the state of Georgia has done more than anyother state to shape the political future of this country. After all, itwas that grassroots-driven voter mobilization in Georgia that flipped thestate blue for the first time in nearly three decades, helping Joe Bidenbecome president. It was that historic result in Georgia that led then-President Donald Trump to try and pressure Republican-elected officials inGeorgia to help him reverse the outcome of that election, a move, that may,yet, land him in prison, as Georgia prosecutors continue to investigate thematter.It was, also, Georgia, where just one day before a violent, right-wing mobstormed the U.S. Capitol, Democrats, once again, managed to turn out votersin historic numbers, electing not one but two Democratic senators, handingDemocrats control of the Senate.Every major piece of legislation that comes out of this Congress and thisWhite House, including the sweeping-coronavirus-relief package, that wasjust announced today. All of it is possible because of what happened inGeorgia in November, and then in January.And so, it makes sense, that now, just as the rest of the nation finallythought it could stop focusing on Georgia. Republicans in Georgia aretaking aggressive action to try to stop anything like that from everhappening, again.Yesterday, Georgia Republicans introduced a set of sweeping, new bills tolimit access to polls in that state. Among the provisions, in these newbills, is a move to significantly restrict absentee voting in Georgia. AllGeorgians have been able to vote absentee, since 2005, without anyproblems, under laws that were created, and passed, by Republicans. Itselfit was all good while Republicans were winning elections, I guess.But now, the Democrats have won three statewide elections in Georgia wherethe absentee ballots tended to favor Democrats. Suddenly -- suddenly,Georgia Republicans have decided to significantly restrict who can andcannot vote absentee. One bill would also end early, in-person voting,voting on Sundays. Days, when black churches have historically heldsomething called souls to the polls drives to turn out their members.I will give you three reasons why Republicans or three guesses as to whyRepublicans want to end early voting on Sundays, in particular.Of course, all of this comes just after Georgia held two elections withrecord levels of both early and absentee voting. Elections where Georgia`sown secretary of state, has stated emphatically, there was no widespread-voter fraud. And Georgia Republicans do not appear eager to debate meritsof the bill, before passing it.According to NPR, the text of one voter suppression bill was introducedjust one hour before it was passed out of committee giving the Democrats onthat committee barely any time to find out what was in it. So what happensnext in the state of Georgia? Georgia Democrats are still in the minorityin the statehouse and the Senate. So, is there anything they can do to stopthese changes?Joining us now is Democratic Georgia state representative, Rhonda Burnough.Representative Burnough, thank you for joining us.Tell me the status of this. This is a remarkable and interesting matter, inthat Republicans, until this election, were all about early voting andabsentee voting. They wrote that law into being. They -- they are the oneswho passed these laws into being.STATE REP. RHONDA BURNOUGH (D-GA): Thank you for having me tonight.Yes. We did receive this bill, yesterday. And today, during our committeemeeting, it was a hearing in which fellow Georgians were able to talk to usabout their concerns about HB-531. As we know, Georgia has been a leader inproviding voters more options to vote than most states. So, why would theyundermine -- why would we undermine our own success?And as you said, it`s basically because we did win those three elections.And so now, they want to change all of the rules.VELSHI: And ostensibly, it`s to stop illegal voting, fraudulent voting. Butyour own secretary of state, I have seen him itemize the cases they areinvestigating. There are very, very few. There`s no evidence, at all, ofwidespread-voter fraud, despite the fact that that secretary of state, aRepublican, is under remarkable pressure from allies of Donald Trump tofind voter fraud.BURNOUGH: Yes, you are correct. There is no widespread-voter fraud in thestate of Georgia. So, for that reason, we don`t understand why, all of asudden, we received a bill that was 48 pages. And it was a combination ofall the worst bills that they could come up with. It would now prevent us -- it would limit the days for -- for early voting.It would, of course, as you said, block Sunday voting. And one of the --the very popular things that happened during our elections, what it wouldlimit ballot drop boxes, and also, outside funding. That they don`t wantthe election supervisors to apply for the various grants that were offeredduring the election season.VELSHI: There`s -- there`s an element in here, which is kind of interestingbecause one thing we have watched in Georgia not just in these last twoelections but in the previous election, which Stacey Abrams was running. Isthe degree to which people would stand outside, for hours, to be preparedto vote. There`s -- there is a part in it bill that prohibits the handingout of food and water to voters.It says that no person shall solicit votes in any manner or by any means ormethod, nor shall any person display or distribute any campaign material.Nor shall any person give, offer to give, or participate in the giving ofany money or gifts, including but not limited to, food and drink to anelector.So, people who would take water to people who were standing for hours inlines. This bill would make that a crime?BURNOUGH: Yes, it would. But part of the bill -- yes, it would make it acrime. And those people who were passing out water were passing it out toeverybody. They didn`t go up and ask anybody if you were Republican orDemocrat. And with all the changes that they are trying to do with thisbill, we would go back to having long lines. People standing in line, not -- seniors not being able to have seats. And so, with all these changes,they are trying to take us backwards, instead of forward.VELSHI: It is remarkable development. We will watch it closely with you.Representative, thank you for joining us. Georgia`s State RepresentativeRhonda Burnough --BURNOUGH: Thank you for having me.VELSHI: -- we appreciate your time tonight.Still ahead. A very real example of the change Georgia voters decided on,in November. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)VELSHI: All right. Here is proof of how much difference an election makes.During president Trump`s first G7 meeting, back in 2017, he was the last toshow up for the traditional photo op, forcing the other world leaders towait around for him.He was also noticeably absent when the group decided to walk through theSicilian town that was hosting the summit. You can see them walking here,German Chancellor Angela Merkel, then Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,and the British prime minister, Theresa May.Trump, meanwhile, decided he would go it alone, waiting behind for a golfcart to carry him the 700 yards. That`s four-tenths of a mile.From there, that partnership only got rockier as the years went on. Notbecause of his isolationalist impulses but that was part of it, but also tosome degree because of this rather bizarre insistence that Trump tried toinsert Russia back into the G7, which when it had Russia in it, was calledG8. But Russia was banned from the group after invading and seizing part ofUkraine.That remarkable act of aggression didn`t seem to matter to Donald Trump. Hecalled the move common sense. He then said when it was his turn to host theG7, he wanted Putin there. Never mind the fact that Canada and Germany andFrance and the United Kingdom all disagreed with that.Well, today, we got a searing reminder of what a difference a change inleadership can make. President Biden, this afternoon, set a new tone interms of how the United States plans to deal with Russia. With remarks thattook place as he attended his first virtual, G7 summit.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Putin seeks to weaken European -- the European project and our NATO alliance. He wants to undermine thetransatlantic unity and our resolve because it`s so much easier for theKremlin to bully and threaten individual states, than it is to negotiatewith the strong, closely united, transatlantic community.That`s why -- that`s why standing up for the sovereignty and territorialintegrity of Ukraine remains a vital concern for Europe and the UnitedStates.(END VIDEO CLIP)VELSHI: President Biden is making a clean break with Trump`s America-firstforeign policy. No more pandering to Russia, no more not going it aloneanymore, riding in a golf cart while the rest of the world walks together.This comes, as the U.S. voices a willingness to restart diplomacy withIran, and talks regarding that country`s crumbling-nuclear deal, and amidthis country plans to reenter into the Paris climate agreement. There is areal sense that America is back on the world stage or at the very least,trying to put humpty dumpty back together, again, and back on top of thewall.Joining me now to talk about this, Ben Rhodes, deputy national securityadviser under President Obama.Ben, good to see you.I think, one can`t overstate what has happened in the last couple of weeks,with respect to Joe Biden engaging on the world stage, but in particularways. It`s not -- it`s not pink cloud to pink cloud with everybody. Infact, he had a tough conversation with Israel`s prime minister, BenjaminNetanyahu. And the lack of a conversation with the Saudi-crowned prince,Mohammed bin Salman -- sort of sending a message to both of them, too, thatAmerica will have a clearer role, even in the Middle East.BEN RHODES, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: No, that`s right, Ali. If you thinkabout it, you know who were Trump`s favorite leaders? Mohammed bin Salmanwas perhaps at the top of that list. The first trip Donald Trump took aspresident overseas, he broke precedent. Instead of going to one of ourneighbors, he went to Saudi Arabia.And, of course, the leader that Donald Trump would never criticize wasVladimir Putin. I think, what you see is Joe Biden, very deliberately,picking venues. This -- the Munich Security Conference where he gave thatspeech today virtually, that`s the venue in the heart of Europe signaling,you know, you are our friends, you are our allies. Not these other guys.The agenda is very different. He is talking about democracy, standing up toRussia, climate change, diplomacy to get back into the Iran nuclearagreement. So, both the tone, the settings, and the substance, is entirelydifferent than what we`ve seen the last four years.VELSHI: So, Ben, this is the moment to determine whether some of thosealliances have been damaged. Obviously, G7 is a -- is a key alliance. NATOis one, that was undermined by -- by Donald Trump. Is everybody happy totake America back, again? Are they okay to say, hey, let`s just forgetabout the last four years and we`re -- it`s back to business?RHODES: Well, yes and no. On the one hand, it just shows you how extremethe Trump policy is or was that Joe Biden`s had to go out of his way toreaffirm, we are a member of NATO. We honor commitments to NATO. We areback in the Paris agreement, which the U.S. led in negotiating. We areprepared to have diplomacy to go back into the Iran agreement that we tookthe lead in negotiating.So this is a sea change. I think the rest of the world, particularly ourallies, have thought, you know, on the one hand, we very much want Americaback. Back at the table. Back defending a set of values. Back, working tosolve problems like climate change or dealing with pandemics, where Trumphad been totally absent.On the other hand, they just lived through the last four years and they arelooking over Joe Biden`s shoulder and thinking, well, who are those crazypeople behind you who stormed the Capitol on January 6th? Can we trust thatthe Americans won`t do that again, in four years? Can we trust that they`llkeep their word?If we want to negotiate a complex agreement, like the Paris agreement wasor the Iran-nuclear deal, can we trust that the Americans won`t just tearit up?So his task is -- is much harder than just making a speech and setting theright tone. He`s going to have to build back credibility, month by month,year by year, initiative by initiative, because of the wrecking-ballapproach that Donald Trump took to our alliances and our role in the world.VELSHI: We shall watch to see how that goes.Ben, good to see you, as always. Thank you for joining us, tonight. BenRhodes, deputy national security adviser under President Obama, weappreciate your time tonight.Tonight`s show is special because tonight we`ve got two big science storiesin the show. Both of which, blow me away. And the first of which, is righton the other side of this break.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)VELSHI: All right. I want to show you something. Science is amazing butit`s, also, as you know, very complicated. Sometimes, we need someone tobreak it down into simple terms for us, lay folks, to understand.When it comes to the emerging threat of the COVID variants from the UnitedKingdom, South Africa, and Brazil, there is a lot that we still don`t know.And I`m, certainly, not a vaccine expert or a doctor or an immunologist.But I do understand video games.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)RICHARD ENGEL, NBC NEWS: Each vaccine is created to instantly recognize avirus, by its shape. Once the vaccine identifies the shape it`s beenprogrammed to look for, it blocks it, very efficiently.But when a virus mutates, it changes shape, making it more difficult forthe vaccine to identify its target. And if a vaccine can`t recognize whatit`s trying to block, we`re all in trouble.(END VIDEO CLIP)VELSHI: That was my NBC News colleague, Richard Engel, host of "OnAssignment", breaking down in layman`s terms, how the virus mutationslipped by the immune system.The CDC warns that these new variants spread more easily and quickly, whichcould lead to more cases of the virus, which would, in turn, put even morestrain on the health-care system, leading to more hospitalizations, andpotentially, more deaths.Now, there is some hopeful news about our current vaccines. The so-calledmRNA vaccines, providing protection against these mutations. There is alsoresearch showing them to have reduced effectiveness, when compared to theoriginal strain of the virus. But, don`t despair.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)ENGEL: But hope is not lost. Science may come to our rescue. The new typeof mRNA vaccines, developed by Pfizer, Moderna, and others, are sorevolutionary, they can be quickly reprogrammed to adapt, as virusesmutate.UGUR SAHIN, CEO, BIONTECH: Just a modern way of making -- making vaccines,which gave us, also, the ability to respond with an effective and safevaccine.ENGEL: Ugur Sahin invented the Pfizer vaccine. He is the CEO of BioNTech.Is it almost like you are cutting and pasting like a computer?SAHIN: Yeah. A little bit. It`s a copy of the virus. But in this copy, ofcourse, there`s no genetic piece of the virus. It is just information.Which is safe and which is not able to replicate. It is so easy. I -- itis, of course, not easy but it is -- it is a process that allows us to makeit fast.ENGEL: So it`s a copy and paste of the genetic material.SAHIN: Copy and paste. Yeah.ENGEL: And no matter how many times it changes, you just copy a new imageand paste it?SAHIN: Copy and paste. Copy and paste.ENGEL: It`s a transformative way of making vaccines.(END VIDEO CLIP)VELSHI: Kind of amazing. It`s now a race between an evolving virus and thescientists on the front lines working to make flexible vaccines.Joining me now, Richard Engel, NBC News chief foreign correspondent andhost of on assignment. This weekend, he is going to be hosting a specialedition of "On Assignment", focused on the race to stop those COVIDvariants in their tracks.Richard, I always appreciate you staying up so late. You are always faraway somewhere before it`s the middle of the night to be with us. But thisis really, really important.This race between the virus that is evolving and mutating to escape thevaccine and the vaccine, that can be copy pasted, and adapted, to the -- tothe virus. Who wins this race? How does it look? How does it look?ENGEL: Well, so far in this race, we are winning, but the virus is evolvingvery, very quickly. The vaccines that we have right now that are currentlyavailable do work against the main variants. They don`t work as well, butthey still work. And that is the key thing to know.So it is a race to get the vaccines out before this virus continues toevolve because this is a battle against evolution. We understand evolutionsort of in human terms or in mammal terms, it happens very, very slowly.You and I evolved. It happens over generations. It happens over millions ofyears. Because we are made of DNA, DNA is relatively stable, we have longlife spans, relatively speaking, and there aren`t that many of us, soevolution takes a long time.Viruses are made of RNA. They mutate more easily, and there are trillionsand trillions of viruses out there and they only live generally a fewhours. So with each production, each generation of viruses, there areopportunities to mutate, opportunities for improvements, and that`s we`veseen now.We`ve seen the virus over time because it has had so much room toreplicate. It has had improvements accidentally, and those improvements arepropelling themselves forward, creating these new and improved strains. So,then you have these amazing scientists who are trying to quickly adjust thetechnology so that they can compensate as the virus evolves at the speed ofviral evolution.VELSHI: Richard, at some juncture, our attempts to get herd immunity andlots of people vaccinated, we hope, we overtake the fact that the virus ismutating and it will be affecting fewer and fewer people and we will havedeveloped is certain immunity.Is there a point at which we look like we`re in control of this situation?ENGEL: Well, herd immunity is a funny concept because with the variants,herd immunity doesn`t always apply because -- there was a city in Brazil,Manaus. They had huge percentage of the population that was infected, about70 percent, some say 80 percent of the population had the coronavirus.Then a new strain came, and the fact that they had been infected beforedidn`t help them. Their previous infections gave them no protection becausethey were protected from something that was no longer relevant. The virushad changed.So the most important thing is not necessarily just herd immunity. If youjust let this virus go and don`t battle it with the vaccines, it willcontinue to change and your previous infections might no help you verymuch. But the key thing is to drive down the numbers because the rate atwhich the virus mutates is a factor of how much there is out there.So if you can shrink it, if you can reduce the general amount of virus onthe planet, it will still mutate, but there will be less of it. It will bemuch more controlled and it will mutate less frequently because there willbe fewer options for it to do that.So the way to achieve the herd immunity effect is by getting peoplevaccinated and reducing the number of virus particles out there.VELSHI: This is amazing. I`m so grateful for the time you`ve taken toexplain it. I set my Sunday evening to watch your special. Richard Engel isour NBC News chief foreign correspondent and the host of "On Assignment."This special hour on COVID mutations airs Sunday, 10:00 p.m. Eastern. Don`tmiss it. I`m not going to.Richard, we appreciate you making time tonight. Hope you get a little sleepbefore the sun comes up. Thank you, my friend.ENGEL: Thank you very much. My pleasure.VELSHI: Coming up next, a story that both Rachel and I are very geekilyexcited about. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)VELSHI: All right. This last story is not just a departure from the worldof politics, but indeed from this planet. But Rachel and I are very excitedabout what NASA is doing on Mars these days.Today, NASA released the first color images from the landing of theirrover, the "Perseverance", on the planet`s surface.Now, as a layman, this photo is definitely the straight out of Hollywoodwinner. It shows the moment perseverance touches down, kicking up plumes ofdust from the planet`s surface. But after listening to NASA`s team ofscientists talk today, I`m blown away by every single one of the imagesthey released.This, for instance, is not the most eye-catching photo until you realizeit`s the first high had much resolution color photo ever taken from thesurface of Mars.Or this photo taken from a satellite circling Mars of the "Perseverance"parachuting down to the surface. This feels like any other Google Mapsphoto you`ve ever seen, until you learn that the satellite from which thephoto was taken was traveling at 6,750 miles per hour and had the time andangle itself exactly right to get this shot in a single pass from over 400miles away at the very moment that "Perseverance" was as long as from going1,300 miles an hour to 200 miles per hour as it got ready to land, and theygot the shot.Or this photo which is literally just a photo of the front wheel of therover and bunch of rocks, but the scientists at NASA already think that therocks right there in the upper left-hand corner, feet from where the roverlanded, may be able to tell them how old the dried out area near thelanding site is, giving us a huge data point about the history of Mars.NASA says we should start to expect far more photos like that and colorvideos, and even, I kid you not, color videos from a small detachablehelicopter to be transmitted back to earth in the coming weeks and months.I used my phone to deposit a check the other day. I had to retake the photobecause it was blurry, so color me impressed, NASA.All right. That does it for us tonight. Rachel is back on Monday, but youcan catch me all weekend live from Birmingham, Alabama, with a specialseries of shows that honor Black History Month. You`re going to see myconversations with activists and ordinary citizens from all walks of life,from a city that is steeped in America`s struggle for racial justice andequality.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TAKAYA MADDOX, SMALL BUSINESS OWNER: All we want is for you to see us ashumans. We`re humans. We want to be treated with the same dignity andrespect that you would give somebody white or anybody else. All I did wascame out of my mother`s womb just like you and trying to make the best outof this life that God has given me.(END VIDEO CLIP)VELSHI: More of that this weekend, 8:00 to 10:00 a.m. I am live fromBirmingham, Alabama.It`s time now for "THE LAST WORD." My friend Jonathan Capehart, in forLawrence O`Donnell this evening, something I get used to doing on Saturdayand Sunday mornings, I get to do now.Good evening, Jonathan.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>