Summary:Jaime Harrison, Democratic National Committee chairman is interviewed. Dr. Peter Hotez from the Texas Children`s Hospital and Baylor College of Medicine is interviewed.Transcript:REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): What was chilling in the message that wasreceived is that this individual said stop telling lies. Biden did not win.He will not be president.And so, he was radicalized by the big lie that Donald Trump told and thathas been supported by so many Republicans in the House and the Senate.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Congressman Jeffries, as I said, identifying himself ascongressman-1 cited in this criminal complaint which has been unsealedtoday by federal prosecutors. And he is describing there what this criminalcomplaint alleges, what this criminal complaint indicates about how thisman who threatened his family was radicalized, radicalized by PresidentTrump and Republicans big lie that the presidential election somehow wasn`treally won by President Biden and somehow magically President Trump isstill going to be president.But the actual nature of the actions this man took, the ways that hedecided to act and to attack the government and to attack the press inresponse to that lie is very chilling. In the complaint, this is anaffidavit from an FBI special agent who recounts the threats that this manallegedly made to Congressman Jeffries` brother, to his family. Just listento this.Quote: On or about January 11th, the office of congressman-1, HakeemJeffries, informed the FBI that on or about January 6th , the day of theCapitol attack, Jeffries` brother received the following text messages fromthe defendant`s phone, which also included a picture of a home in the sameneighborhood where Congressman Jeffries` brother lived.Quoting from the text messages that was sent to the congressman`s brother,the text message said, quote: Your brother is putting your entire family atrisk with his lies. In other words, we are armed and nearby your house. Youhad better have a word from him. We are not far from his house either.Already spoke to Jeffries` son and we know where his kids are. Your wordshave consequences.Stop telling lies. Biden did not win. He will not be president. We are notwhite supremacists. Most of us are active or retired law enforcement ormilitary.You are putting your family at risk. We have armed members near your home.Don`t risk their safety with your words and lies.And again, accompanying that text message is a picture of a home, in thesame neighborhood, nearby to where Congressman Jeffries` brother lives. Sohe`s receiving these messages and getting a picture of one of hisneighbors` houses.This is the FBI special agent in this affidavit. It`s the basis of acriminal complaint now charging Robert Lemke of California with threateninginterstate communications.Just, quote, also on January 6th, congressman-1, Hakeem Jeffries` sister-in-law, the wife of Jeffries` brother exchanged the following messages withthe Lemke phone. Lemke phone, quote, call your husband down.Victim two. Congressman`s sister-in-law. Who is this? Your number is onlycoming up. Not your name.Lemke phone, quote, does that matter? We saw on the hidden camera. He wasquite stirred up. You need to have him talk to Congressman Jeffries.Thanks.On the hidden camera?The complaint then goes on to discuss the same defendants` threats to ajournalist who is not named in the complaint. Again, according to "The NewYork Times" tonight, it`s ABC News` George Stephanopoulos. We have notconfirmed that independently but that is what "The Times" is reporting.And back to the complaint. It says, quote, also on or about January 6th,while the capitol attack is happening, while in the Bronx, New York, arelative of journalist-1 received the following message from the Lemkephone.Quote, journalist one, George Stephanopoulos` words are putting you andyour family at risk. We are nearby, armed and ready. Thousands of us areactive/retired law enforcement and military, et cetera. That`s how we doit.The complaint goes on to quote what is believed to be the defendant`sFacebook page. The Lemke Facebook account says, folks, be ready for war.Trump has refused to cede. Evidence throws -- excuse me, evidence showsfraud occurred and the Supreme Court cases will be successful. Trump willprevail. Spread this message.Faith, my fellow Republicans. Do not give up. Keep an eye out for a varietyof protests.Well, add that, "The New York Times" is also reporting tonight that aspokesperson for the sheriff`s department in northern California and theUnited States Air Force which this gentleman claims to have been, worked atboth, he claim to be a U.S. Air Force veteran, claims to be an employee ofthe Alameda County sheriff`s department. Both Alameda Sherriff and the U.S.Air Force both say they have no record of him having worked or served ineither of those places but that is how he represents himself.And again, that was part of his threat. We are active or retired lawenforcement and military. That`s how we do it.I think the implication there is not only do we have access to firearms andwe have access to sort of tactical knowledge that we would need in order tokill you or your family members, but we`d probably get away with it. Ithink that`s the implication of that threat there.Nevertheless, these threatening text messages to Congressman Jeffries`family and allegedly George Stephanopoulos` family, saying, you know, Iknow where your kids are, we`re just outside and we`re armed, we`re ex-military and law enforcement. We have hidden cameras in your home. We`rewatching you right now. We`re outside with guns and we`re going to kill youunless your congressman relative, your journalist relative, starts sayingwhat we want them to.This is also what was happening in our country on January 6th from thepresident`s supporters. This is the other thing Trump supporters were doingthat day.I mean, there`s a whole bunch of ways to try to use force to overthrow thegovernment. One of them is what we saw on the capitol steps, the rotundaand the Senate chamber and all these other places the Trump mob got throughto. But another one is threatening to kill the family members of Congressas a means of trying to force that member of Congress to do what you want.And the further we get from the attack on the capitol, the more details welearn, the more criminal cases are brought against people who are involved,honestly, the sort of heavier that day becomes. It may be that members ofCongress and the Republican Party and senators and the Republican Partythink that January 6th is now ancient history and we should move past andit there doesn`t need to be any consequences for that.But as more people get arrested, as we get to read more criminal complaintsand indictments, the weight of what happened there, what was organizedthere, is getting heavier and heavier. You will recall, for example, thecase of the 22-year-old woman from Pennsylvania charged with having somerole in stealing a laptop or some other computer equipment from HouseSpeaker Nancy Pelosi`s office during the capitol riot.An affidavit -- the FBI affidavit filed in her case, it included thisalmost unbelievable allegation that she had a plan to provide the laptop tosomebody who she thought would be able to give to it Russian intelligence,Nancy Pelosi`s laptop, Nancy Pelosi`s hard drives.Well, last week, after her court appointed defense counsel admitted thatshe was part of the crowd that violently attacked the capitol on January6th, we here this show covered the almost equally unbelievable fact samedefendant was then released into her mother`s custody. Not kept in jail.This week, prosecutors are back in court seeking new restrictionspotentially on her release because they say they`ve just recentlydiscovered that since she has been out, she has tried to destroy evidenceand encouraged other people to do the same. From the hearing today, quote,the prosecutor says we have some additional concerns about her use of thecomputer and the Internet to destroy evidence, and in charge of people todo the same. We were aware that she was deleting her own online accountsand possibly switching devices. That was in both the original explain andthe amendment of complaint statement of facts.What we learned recently is that we think she may be telling, we haveindications she was instructing other people to delete messages as well.Today, prosecutors told the judge about a specific instance of that defendobstructing an associate to delete messages. The judge thereafter decidedthat this defendant will no longer have Internet access. That`s a changedcondition of her release. The defendant claims her social media account hasbeen hacked by a disgruntled ex-boyfriend and that explains all of it.It is not going well. And what may be worse and more unnerving is that thelaptop in this case, the computer equipment apparently stolen from NancyPelosi`s office, Pelosi`s office does say they had a laptop or somecomputer equipment stolen during the capitol attack. That computerequipment as far as we can tell has not been recovered. Whether it was alaptop or hard drives or some other computer components, whatever wasstolen from Pelosi`s office while a witness told investigators that thisdefendant planned to give to it Russian intelligence, law enforcement,whether or not that has ever happened, law enforcement apparently has neverbeen able to recover the computer or the computer equipment stolen fromPelosi.So where is it? And why is this person being released to the custody of hermother, especially if she`s already broken the conditions of her release?Meanwhile, the acting U.S. attorney in D.C. who is apparently in charge ofthe investigation into the capitol attack is saying that there could beseditious conspiracy charges brought against some of the rioters as soon asnext week. He said today that they`re closely looking at evidence ofseditious charges and he expects they will bear fruit very soon.Also, charges have now been brought and it appears this is the first timethis has happened. Charges have been brought against someone who spoke atone of the rallies leading up to the Capitol attack. This guy was one ofthe speakers at a Stop the Steal (AUDIO GAP) capitol on January 6th. He ischarged with what he did there.The FBI affidavit accompanying the charges in his speech described hisspeech the day before urging people to -- in the crowd to fight. Tellingthem it was a revolution. Clearly prosecutors think that is at the veryleast a context for the federal charges he is now facing.So, I mean, that`s where we`re at. They are starting to arrest the peoplewho spoke at rallies before the capitol attack. The question is whetheranybody will be charged for incitement or some other connection to theviolence based on what they did at those rallies. When the issue ofincitement, of course, is that the center of president Trump`s impeachmenttrial are the people who incited this thing from the dais with a microphonein their hand culpable for what the mob did after they were so inspired bythose speakers.If they are, that potentially gets to us criminal charges against multiplepublic officials who spoke at those rallies. When that U.S. attorney inD.C. announced earlier this month that he had set up a strike force toconsider potential sedition charges. That`s a 20-year felony, when he saidthere would be a task force set up and the U.S. attorney general`s officeto look at sedition as basically a charge category for people who areimplicated.When he announced that, he said among the prosecutors he was tapping to dothat work were prosecutors with national security backgrounds but alsoprosecutors with public corruption backgrounds, public corruptionprosecutors, people used to prosecuting public officials for doing badthings while in office. That who is looking at the sedition charges at theU.S. attorneys` office in D.C.And while we wait to see what kind of further charges are in store forpeople involved in the capitol attack, meanwhile, the National Guard isgoing to stay at the capitol for a while yet. I`ll tell you personally,when I went up to the capitol yesterday to interview the new majorityleader, Chuck Schumer, in the Senate -- I mean, I`ve been covering this. Iknew about the military presence at the capitol grounds. But it wasremarkable to see. It was quite unusual.We literally had to snake through armored personnel carriers set up asbarriers to get to the place that they set aside for us to park to do thisinterview, with the majority leader. Just going through lines of NationalGuard to do an interview with a member of Congress. It is a very differentfeeling than anything that I`ve been used to in all the years I`ve donethis job.The national guardsmen and women who are part of that deployment, it is notan easy deployment. They are out there under austere conditions. This issomething that was not set up long term. They have thousands of troopsthere and they haven`t sorted everything out, in terms of getting they willwell-fed and getting them bathroom breaks and getting a place to shower andwash and change their clothes.But the National Guard at the capitol, that deployment is going to beextended at least 5,000 troops will stay through March. And that is notbecause it is convenient and cheap to have that many National Guardsmen inD.C. It is because the threats remain from the president`s supporters, fromPresident Trump`s supporters, both around this new aspect of theirconspiracy theory where they`re saying, oh, maybe the Biden inaugurationwasn`t real. It was some sort of deep state mirage. And the realinauguration is the old date from the constitution before they changed it.So Donald Trump, the real inauguration will be on March 4th. And DonaldTrump is secretly still president. And that`s when the QAnon storm -- okay.A new conspiracy theory that maybe the next thing they`re going to doshould be in the first week of March.But even before then, the impeachment trial will be starting in a couple ofweeks. And there is reportedly enough threat and noise from violent Trumpsupporters online that the impeachment trial itself might yet be theoccasion for them to mount further attacks on the government and on membersof Congress, either as a group or individually one by one.And so, the guard is staying. The armed National Guard, the deployment ofthousands of armed U.S. troops will extend well into March, because thesupporters of the former president may be mounting more armed attacks onthe government and we need to be prepared for it.That news comes today as the U.S. Capitol police issued a remarkableapology today for their failings as a police department on January 6th. Thenew acting chief of Capitol police, the last one resigned, said thedepartment knew there was strong potential for violence. They recognizedthat the target of the violence was Congress. Nevertheless, they failed totake adequate measures to prepare, the chief of the capitol police todayapologizing for not having been able to protect the Capitol. Just a starkthing, this full-on apology.She says that they did prepare but not nearly enough for the scale and theviolence of the threat posed by President Trump`s supporters after they hadbeen egged on by the president to come to the capitol. As we continue tolearn more and more about the January 6th attack, how serious it was, howdangerous it was, as more people are charged, as people potentially facesedition, or seditious specious charges, as the violent movement around theformer president continues to be enough of a threat that thousands ofNational Guard troops with M4 rifles will stay in Washington posted at theU.S. Capitol for weeks to come.I mean, all of that, what is now becoming quite perfectly clear is that theRepublican Party really doesn`t care. I mean, for all the little peoplethat`s we got from Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell that he wasopen to the idea of convicting President Trump for what he describe asPresident Trump`s culpability and inciting that attack, right, opining fromthe Senate floor that the rioters were fed lies by the former president,telling -- quietly telling lots of reporters that he was quite appalled andready to make a clean break, and he was open to convicting the president,potentially barring him from office for life, for all that noise -- today,Mitch McConnell voted with 44 other Republican senators that there shouldnot even be an impeachment trial in this case. Only five Republicans saidthe trial should go ahead.You will recall that it was Mitch McConnell who would not allow animpeachment trial to start until Donald Trump left office. It was hisdecision, and his decision alone, right? Chuck Schumer that, hey, Mr.McConnell, if you and I agreed that the Senate can be brought back to startthe trial, that`s all it requires. We can just agree, bring back theSenate, start the trial now. Mitch McConnell said no. I will not allow thetrial to start until Donald Trump is no longer president.Today, he voted that because Donald Trump is no longer president, therecannot be a trial. So, 45 Republican senators said today that thereshouldn`t even be a trial for this. Forget it.Yeah. They stormed the capitol and tried to kill the vice president and thespeaker of the house and probably lots of us. And they stormed the Senatechamber and went through all of our desks and had guns and tasers and batsand ransacked the place and thought that would be the way that they wouldtake control of the government while threatening to kill all of us.But you know what? It was nearly three weeks ago, 45 Republican senatorsthat that today. And that is technically meaningless. It has no implicationdirectly in terms of what`s going to happen at the Senate impeachment trialof former President Donald Trump. The trial will go ahead. There have beenfour Senate impeachment trials of U.S. presidents in U.S. history. Two ofthem are for Donald Trump.Today, all U.S. senators took their oaths to essentially serve their roleas what amounts to jurors in next month`s trial. The oath was administeredby Vermont Senator Patrick Leahy. He is the president pro tem of theSenate. He`s the senior senator and the Senate majority. He is 80 yearsold. He`s the longest serving in his role as president pro tem, he will bethe one who presides procedurally over President Trump`s trial.I should note we did have a bit of a scare this evening when we receivedword that Senator Leahy had been taken to the hospital at therecommendation of the Capitol physician after reported not feeling well athis office. We`re now told that he is already out of the hospital and athome. He`s had a thorough examination. He got some test results back. Hisspokesman says the senator looks forward to getting back to work,potentially as soon as tomorrow.So, again, it`s a scare in terms of Senator Leahy tonight but we send thesenator best wishes for a speedy recovery and hope it is nothing serious.But as far as the trial that Senator Leahy will preside over next month,Republicans don`t think there should be a trial. They believe the presidentshould not have been tried while he was still in office. Now that he`s notin office, he can`t be tried.So if you mount a violent attack on the U.S. government, including yoursupporters seemingly being bent on trying to kill the vice president andmembers of house and senate, depending on the timing, it might be okay.They are really cool with this being what their party does right now. It isalmost impossible to believe that that is where they are. And that reallyis where they are.Tonight, CNN reporting that one of the new members of the House, acongresswoman named Marjorie Taylor Greene, as recently as 2019, waspublicly advocating for the execution of prominent Democrats in thiscountry, including Nancy Pelosi who she suggested should get a bullet inthe head. No sign whatsoever that will have any impact on Ms. Greene`sstanding in the Republican Party or in Congress, because that`s not weirdfor the Republican Party anymore.And, you know, often when a party gets voted out of power, like theRepublicans just were, they no longer hold the White House or the House orthe Senate. Often, when that happens, in normal politics, you see all thisreporting, all the headlines about oh, the party in disarray. This is avery particular and peculiar kind of disarray.I mean, this is what appears to be a political party but they`re notdealing with like, how do we regroup and address our internal differencesand come back to the American people with a newly credible case that weshould be governing. No, they are dealing with what we would usually thinkof as a fringe violent extremist criminal movement. But it is right at theheart of what they are offering the country and they are really takinggreat pains to make sure that the leader who drove them fastest and hardestin direction can run as their standard bearer again in 2024, because theylike the way he did it this time?That`s more than a party in disarray. That`s something where it is veryhard to have a stable democracy based on a two-party system if that`s oneof the two parties, if that`s their contention right now. What do we doabout our members who bring guns on to the floor and saying that thespeaker of the House should have a bullet in the head and what do we doabout a president who just mounted an attack on the Capitol? Should we justmake sure his followers are charged and make sure he come back and run forpresident in 2024?I mean, this is not politics per se. This is a question about the viabilityof democracy if that`s one of the two parties in this country. Meanwhile,there is another major party in this country. And on the other side, we`venow got Democrats in control of the House and the Senate and the WhiteHouse, and what they are contending with right now is they have all thispolicy they would like to get done. They have a very different challenge totheir hands.And we`re now seeing within the past 48 hours, their idea for how they`regoing to try to get stuff done for the country. I mean, the contrastbetween what the two parties are dealing with internally, it is not likenight and day. It`s like earth and mars.But the Democrats have their own challenges and they are how to pass thelegislative agenda. Last night in our interview with Senate DemocraticLeader Chuck Schumer, he made news when he said Democrats may have a way topass the COVID relief bill and also President Biden`s infrastructure bill,just with 50 votes. So even if the Republicans decide they want tofilibuster everything, those two biggest pieces of legislation that theywant to do, they may have figured out a way to do them just with Democraticvotes.The number two Democrat in the Senate, Dick Durbin, also saying today thatthey may have found a way to pass a new minimum wage, a $15 minimum wage,again, just with 50 Democratic votes, plus the vice president. Even if allRepublicans vote against it and Republicans filibuster and do everythingelse to stop it.If they could fast COVID relief bill and an infrastructure bill and a $15minimum wage with Republicans not being able to stop with it thefilibuster, that would be quite a series of legislative accomplishments forthe entire term, let alone the first, what, month of the term?Republicans are having their own Shakespearean made biblical drama rightnow, really playing with existential stuff in terms of this country and whothey are and what they`re offering. And their confidence level and comfortlevel with violence against democracy being what they are offering thiscountry as their option. All right?And while the Republicans are doing that, Democrats are coming up with allthe ways they can to try to move all of the substantive policy things theywant to do without the Republicans. That`s what is happening in Congress.And President Biden is moving forward with a ton of executive actionsbecause he can do that without engaging Congress at all, eliminating thezero tolerance policy that led to kids being separated from their parentsat the southern border. We`re still waiting to hear what theadministration`s plan is going to be to reunite all those remaining kidswith their families. They said they would set up a task force to get itdone. We`re waiting to hear the details of that. But the policy todayeliminated at the stroke of a pen by President Biden.President Biden today issuing multiple executive orders on racial equity,building racial equity into everything the federal government does. He madeannouncements today about vaccines, including his administration believesit has found a way to get 300 million Americans vaccinated by the end ofthe summer.We`re going to be talking more about that in detail later in the show.That`s a very big deal if they can pull it off.Big picture though, we are at this place right now where we are supposedlya two-party, two major party democracy. That`s been the source of stabilityand continuity in our democracy for centuries now. And we are now quitesuddenly and clearly at this place where the two parties have totallydifferent tasks at hand.And on the Republican side, it is some scary and kind of unnerving stuffabout whether or not they are a party that endorses violence and whetherthey are a party that still believes that democracy and elections are theway that we decide things as a country. On the Democratic side, they`rejust trying to govern. They`re trying to figure out how to get somethingdone without having to deal with that dumpster fire on the other side,because how can that be your governing partner?However much we tend to treat politics as a horse race, a numbers game interms of how many seats on each side, how much elections have consequencesbased on how many people are on each committee, right? Once theconsequences are that you are in control of both houses of Congress and theWhite House, the thing that is most key to your political success is toshow whether you can do good things for the country with your power.Whether you can get stuff double.The Republican Party is having a very different crisis right now. TheDemocratic Party is trying to figure out how to deliver. And that makes thetask of the Democratic Party totally different than what is happening onthe other side. It makes it sort of earnest and civic right now.But also incredibly important as to whether or not we`ll have a Republicanin the future. Because on the Republican Party, that`s not the way they areapproaching the nation`s problems right now. The Democrats have to provethey can do this or they`re going to have to contend with the dumpster fireover there, again, in terms of what the people of the United States have tochoose from with the two options available to them.Just an incredible situation we`re in. But as I said, the man who Joe Bidenhas just chosen to run the Democratic Party, he has a deep and complex andurgent task ahead of him. Jaime Harrison, the new chair of the DemocraticNational Committee joins us live for the interview, next.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: When a new president is elected, it is not written down anywhereas black letter law, but by tradition, one of the perks of the new job isthat the newly elected president gets to choose who he or she would like tolead the president`s party. Well, President Joe Biden has made his choice.Joining us now for the interview is the brand new chairman of theDemocratic Party, Jaime Harrison.Mr. Harrison, it is great to see you. Congratulations on this well-deservedgig.JAIME HARRISON, CHAIRMAN, DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE: Thank you somuch, Rachel. I really appreciate it.MADDOW: So tell me in your open words what you believe your mission is,your sort of vision statement for what you want to do at the helm of theDemocratic Party for these first couple years that president Biden is inoffice.HARRISON: Well, Rachel, you know, President Biden`s mission is to enactpolicy, to really help address the issues people work on on a day-to-daybasis. My job as the chair of the Democratic Party is to make sure we takehis successes, the promises he has made, that we make sure the folks downin small towns, in the cities, on dirt roads, understand those are promisesthat are kept. It is also my mission to make sure that Democrats build backbetter, and we have a strengthened party, in all 50 states, in ourterritories, and that we can give him more help in terms of the House, theSenate, in governor`s mansions and state legislatures across the country.And so, I`m looking forward to doing that. And we`re already getting towork. I had calls into Ohio today, into Arkansas because of Sarah HuckabeeSanders said she is running for governor. Talk about Republicans indisarray and a dumpster fire, that`s just one hot mess.And we are not going to allow that to happen. We are going to fighteverywhere, Rachel. And I`m excited about that prospect.MADDOW: One of the reasons I wanted to talk to you, Jaime, right now isbecause I feel like there is an imbalance in the national conversation,because of the way president Trump`s term ended, because of the attack onthe U.S. government mounted by his supporters, I feel like the wholegovernment is really convulsed with thinking about Trumpism as a movement,thinking about Trump supporters and whether they fit into the RepublicanParty and the Republican Party is having some very weird discussions anddecisions about how they want to court even the most extreme supporters ofthe president.And so, we think about the relationship between the politicians and theRepublican Party, and the movement of people that supports them. Almost Ithink compulsively now because we`ve seam the danger that they may presentwhen led in ways that the president, the former president has led them.On the other side of things, we very, very rarely talk about people whovoted for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, people who voted for a Democraticcontrolled senate, people who voted for a Democratic controlled House againas a movement, as a group of people who need to be courted, who arepotentially a major force in politics, depending on how they are led andhow they want to channel their energies, and that may ultimately determinethe success of whether President Biden can get done what he wants andLeader Schumer can get double what he wants and Speaker Pelosi can getdouble what they want.I feel like the Democratic Party is millions of people in the country. Notjust the people in Washington. We don`t talk about them that way very much.HARRISON: Well, and we have to start talking about them in that way,Rachel. You know, ultimately, you have a lot of folks in this country whojust want to be seen. Who want to be heard, and they want to be valued.They want a government that will work for them.What I`m going to encourage folks to do. Look past the D and look past theR and just ask the question, who is fighting for me? Who`s fighting for myfamily? Who is fighting for my community?And right now, you don`t see that from the other side of the aisle. They`retoo busy fighting amongst themselves. And that`s the big problem right now.Joe Biden understands we`re facing four big disasters right now in thiscountry. COVID, which you know, many of us have been impacted by. Theeconomy is creating, so many folks are wondering how to make ends meet, howto put food on the table, whether or not they have a roof over their heads.The climate change that is bearing down on this country, and the racial endequities and injustices that have plagued this nation from its inception.Those are the things that Joe Biden has said, you know what, I`m going tomove on them on behalf of the merge people. Those are the promises that aremade. And it is important for us to galvanize these people to understand,that they have power to really move this country forward.And those folks in Washington, D.C. who don`t want to do that, the KevinMcCarthys of the world who are blaming the insurrection and sedition ofthat mob on the American people, those people need to be replaced. And,Rachel, I see it as my job to help motivate and move that ball forward,because there is no place for people like Rand Paul who believes -- whocriticized Joe Biden for going after white supremacy. That has no place inthis country right now.So if people want to be a part of this effort to build back better, and tohave a 50-state strategy, go to Democrats.org. Be a part of the army we`rebuilding to really take our country back.MADDOW: Mr. Chairman, I`m going to ask you now if you will come back andtalk about some of those individual races. You mentioned the Arkansas race,the Ohio Senate race that`s just open. I`m really interested, especiallygiven your interest running against Lindsey Graham in South Carolina andhow many I learned from about South Carolina politics, really interested inyou talking us through those races as they come up. I hope you`ll comeback.HARRISON: I`ll come back, Rachel. And I just leave with this, Lindsey saidMay 2016, if we nominate Donald Trump, we will get destroyed and we willdeserve it. And I think that is coming to roost.MADDOW: Wow! Democratic National Committee chairman, the new leader of theDemocratic Party nationwide, Jaime Harrison -- Jaime, it`s great to seeyou. Congratulations, my friend. Thank you.HARRISON: Good to see you. Take care.MADDOW: All right. You, too.Much more to get to tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: All right. Let`s start with the good news.President Biden today announced his administration will be able todistribute more vaccine to states as soon as next week. The administrationsays they`re going to be able to shipment out about 10 million doses perweek for the next three weeks. And that is about 1.5 million more doses perweek than they were previously planning on shipping out. So they`ve gonefrom like 8.6 million to 10 million for the next three weeks. That`s good.The president also today announced his administration has ordered 100million more doses each of the two kinds of vaccines that are currentlyavailable, Pfizer vaccine and the Moderna vaccine. And those 100 millioneach should be delivered this summer. That means if that happens, that bythe end of the summer, the federal government will have supplied enoughtotal doses to vaccinate 300 million Americans.Our population is 328 million. So, if you vaccinated 300 million of us,that would pretty much be the end game. That`s the good news, knowing whatwe are aiming at and saying we are putting together the means to get there.States are going to get more doses soon in the next three weeks. There willbe lots more available in the summer. We are aiming within a matter ofmonths at getting the whole population vaccinated. That`s all good news.But it`s all not all good news. There`s also bad news. Getting vaccinatedin this country is way too hard and way too confusing. There are stillsupply chain problems and organizational problems that have led to canceledappointments and frustration and people waiting for their vaccine whoreally should have already gotten them.States have complained for weeks about inaccurate and inconsistentinformation from the federal government on how much vaccine they can have.Hopefully the Biden administration is turning that around now but itremains to be seen.On top of that, there is question about whether the mutations of the virusmay require booster shots, or maybe even in the long run, entirelydifferent vaccines in the future as the vaccine continues to evolve andmutate.And even while President Biden said yesterday that he hopes to increase thenumber of daily vaccines given in this country by 50 percent, he wants togo from a million a day, which is the initial goal, to one and a halfmillion a day, people who know the most about these things saying that even1.5 million a day isn`t going to be enough, particularly with the mutationsof the virus, in some cases, leading to a virus that appears to be muchmore easily transmitted. That means more people infected quickly. Morestrain on the health care system, more hospitalizations, more deaths.It also means more urgency in preventing people from getting this thing.Talking about the imperatives of the new more transmissible variants, andhow well the Biden administration is doing thus far. We`ve got just theexpert here next to talk about it.Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I can announce that we willincrease overall weekly vaccination distributions to states, tribes andterritories from 8.6 million doses to a minimum of 10 million doses. And webelieve that we will soon be able to confirm the purchase of an additional100 million doses for each of the two FDA-authorized vaccines, Pfizer andModerna. That`s 100 million more doses of Pfizer and 100 million more dosesof Moderna. 200 million more doses than the federal government hadpreviously secured. Not in hand yet, but ordered.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Big announcements about vaccine distributions from the Bidenadministration.Dr. Peter Hotez who specializes in molecular virology and microbiology atBaylor College of Medicine says that the newly increased goal of 1 1/2million vaccine shots per day, the old goal was a million shots per day.Now, President Biden says a million and a half shots per day is a goal. Dr.Hotez says that might be enough. He`s arguing on the pages of the op-ed of"The Washington Post", that get closer to what we need, we need to hit 3million doses a day.How possible is that and why is that the right number to aim at?Dr. Peter Hotez is co-director at the Center of Vaccine Development atTexas Children`s Hospital. He`s dean of the National School of TropicalMedicine at Baylor.Dr. Hotez, it`s a real honor to have you back tonight. Thank you for makingtime.DR. PETER HOTEZ, DEAN, NATIONAL SCHOOL OF TROPICAL MEDICINEAT BAYLOR:Thanks, Rachel. Great to be here.MADDOW: So, these are big numbers and it`s hard to sometimes conceptualizewhat they mean. I know we just got to the point as a country where we cando a million, 1.1, maybe 1.2 million shots a day.Why do you say the number we need to be aiming at is triple that, we needto be up to 3 million a day?HOTEZ: Yeah, first of all, I think it`s really important not to diminishthe accomplishments of the Biden administration. We`ve now got a nationalplan in place. We have a national vaccination strategy.We didn`t have that before, so, you know, in a matter of a week, we`vealready got a national vaccine plan in place, and that`s so absolutelyimportant. So I give a lot of credit to the Biden administration.I`m a little concerned, however, that we`re not picking up the pace fastenough. The reason I say that is our estimates indicate that in order tostop virus transmission, remember, there`s two things these vaccines do.They keep you out of the hospital and the ICU. But if enough Americans getvaccinated, we can actually halt virus transmission, potentially, and wethink that number is three quarters of the U.S. population.So, 240 million people, most of the vaccines are two doses, so that`s abouthalf a billion immunizations that we have to take care of. And I want to dothat by the beginning of the summer, not the end of the summer to raceahead of those virus variants.So the simple back of the envelope numbers are 500 million over fivemonths, that`s 100 million a month, 3 million a day. So we`re only strivingfor half of that. And it`s not good enough because we have according to theCenters for Disease Control, the U.K. variant may be the dominant variantin the United States by March or April.The transmission is going to go way back, way back up even though we`redown by 20, 30 percent now from where we were. That`s only temporary. Ithink we`re in the eye of the hurricane and those numbers are going to goback up.So I feel like even as ambitious as the Biden plan is, it`s still notambitious enough, and we can and have to vaccinate half a billion people bythe summer in order to prevent that terrible number of 600,000 deaths.That`s the bottom line, I want to save lives.MADDOW: So to get to that -- the corresponding sort of imperative there isto the extent that the virus in the United States is going to be supplantedby this more transmissible variant, a more transmissible virus, essentiallymeans we have to move faster to give people immunity so that the infectionrates don`t race even further out of control than they`ve already been?HOTEZ: That`s right. We have to let the vaccination race ahead of thevirus emergence. And it`s not just the U.K. variant. We could have theSouth African variant in the U.S. there is one coming out ofDenmark/California, one out of Brazil.And not only are -- is the transmission going up, but according to Dr.Fauci, he feels that the deaths are going up as well with the U.K. variant,the death rate.So this is all very, very bad news on top of previous bad news. So we haveto really look at what are some of the levers we can pull and push tovaccinate the American people in a faster time frame. And don`t forget, youknow, as we`ve all been hearing, my inbox is flooded with people who justare so profoundly frustrated, calling Duane Reade and CVS and Rite Aid andSam`s Club and Walmart trying to get vaccines for their mother, father,brother, sister. You can`t underestimate the destabilizing effect that`shaving on the country.So, this is not only a public health crisis, it`s a full-on homelandsecurity issue, in my estimation.MADDOW: Dr. Peter Hotez of Texas Children`s Hospital and Baylor College ofMedicine -- sir, always an honor to have you here. Thanks for helping usunderstand.HOTEZ: Thanks so much.MADDOW: We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: That is going to do it for us tonight. I am standing on LawrenceO`Donnell`s real estate and I will hereby vacate. I will see you tomorrow.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>