Summary:First Lady Jill Biden`s office announced that her chief of staff will be working directly on the issue of reuniting separated families. Interview with White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST, "ALL IN": That is "ALL IN" on this Thursdaynight.THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: That was my favorite story of yours in a verylong time, Chris. Particularly that story.HAYES: I love -- I just -- I read that story, and I don`t know, man, it`sbeen a rough period. It just filled me up in some way, those pictures --God bless them.MADDOW: When you said it was like I was having an anxiety dream aboutsomething I didn`t even know I was supposed to have anxiety about, that`sexactly right. Like at your car window, you want the shot? Um -- yes,desperately. Also I want to call the police but maybe you`re the police.HAYES: Yeah.MADDOW: Just incredible. Thank you, my friend. Well done. Well done.And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. Tonight, we are goingto be joined live this hour by the person who is fast becoming one of themost familiar faces and voices of the new administration, Jen Psaki, WhiteHouse spokesperson, is going to be our guest tonight.Even though we`re only one week into the administration, I can show youthis many pictures of her conducting different White House press briefingsbecause we have daily White House press briefings again. She does theseevery day.Under the Trump administration, the White House briefings started off badand got quickly worse before they ultimately disappeared entirely. Theyseemed not to be able to handle talking to the press every day and bringquestions. But immediately from day one, the Biden administration broughtback the briefings. It`s led by Jen Psaki and she is here tonight live forthe interview. Very much looking forward to speaking with her.It seems awkward to know it let alone talk about it but as the Bidenadministration gets underway and in this first week, they start reversingthings that were undone or broken by the previous president, as they asthey set out to restore some of the government basics that went by thewayside in the past four years, including things like daily briefings asthey set out to pass a whole bunch of ambitious policies and programs thatBiden campaigned on, that Democrats in Congress campaigned on, things thatare designed to deal with the myriad crises the last presidency left uswith, it is sort of awkward but I think unavoidable to realize that onecrucial thing that is going to make the life or death difference as towhether or not the new administration and the new Congress are actuallyable to get stuff done is a thing that we only have because of RichardNixon being such a terrible president, and specifically because ofsomething that Richard Nixon did right before he resigned.And it seemed like nothing much at the time it got not that much attentionat the time but it very well may now determine if the Biden presidency andthe Democratic Congress under the Biden presidency is able to get anythingdone or not.It was July 1974 -- July 12th, 1974, President Richard Nixon`s top WhiteHouse aide was convicted on multiple felonies. John Ehrlichman, he wasdomestic policy adviser to Nixon, top adviser to Nixon in the White House.Ehrlichman was convicted of multiple felonies, convicted of conspiracy andlying to the FBI, and lying to the grand jury.Actually that day in July 1974, multiple Nixon guys were convicted butEhrlichman was a big deal. He was way up there in the hierarchy he was thehighest ranking person at that point convicted in the Nixon scandals. AndPresident Nixon had to be rattled by it.Nixon`s White House press secretary at the time, Ron Ziegler, toldreporters there would be no comment from the president on Ehrlichman`sconviction. But that conviction was, of course, the lead story in the newsall over the country.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)TOM BROKAW, NBC NEWS ANCHOR: Good evening.John Ehrlichman has been found guilty of three counts of perjury and onecount of conspiracy in the Ellsberg break-in case. The verdict againstEhrlichman formerly President Nixon`s chief domestic advisor was returnedby a federal district court jury in Washington this evening after only afew hours of deliberation. Ehrlichman who stood impassively as the verdictwas read could receive up to 25 years in prison.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Tom Brokaw on "NBC Nightly News" the night of that verdict thatwas the opening story on "Nightly News" that night now we now know lookingback at the timeline that it was less than a month later that Nixon himselfwould resign from the presidency in disgrace as the net of all the Nixonadministration scandals and accountability for Watergate just closed aroundhim as well.But that Friday in mid-July -- remember Nixon resigned in August, right?This was mid-July, the day that Nixon`s top aide was convicted while thepresident was that much on the ropes. If you stayed past the lead story,that night if you watched the whole evening news that night, beyond justthe lead about Ehrlichman facing decades in prison, right, and thepresident having no comment on that.If you got through the rest of the nightly news that night, you wouldeventually, 17 minutes into that 30-minute newscast get to the thing thatnow is everything to us and get to the thing that now 40-years, 40-plusyears later is really the make or break determinant as to whether or notPresident Joe Biden is going to be able to do anything substantive inWashington in his first term in office.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)BROKAW: And at the White House, today, President Nixon signed a new budgetbill into law, the most significant reform of budget procedures sinceCongress began. The bill gives Congress much more authority over thenational budget than it ever has had before. The president for example nolonger will be able to impound appropriated money without the approval ofCongress.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: It was that same day right that`s the same day the president`s topadvisor gets convicted of multiple felonies.So this story about the other thing that mattered about the president thatday that had to wait until minutes into the newscast that night. In thenewspaper the following morning, it only made it onto page six of "The NewYork Times".But what that was, what Nixon signed into law that auspicious day orinauspicious day back in July 1974 is something he probably never wouldhave signed had he not been in extremis, had he not been fighting to savehis own political life, had that not been less than a month before he wasgoing to have to resign the presidency in disgrace.And it`s something he never would have been asked to sign had Nixon notbeen such a terrible president. I mean, we remember Nixon in history nowbecause of all the people who got convicted, right, because of theWatergate disaster, because of all that that scandal revealed about hisscummy administration and his failings as a person and the dramatic way hispresidency had to be brought to an end. I mean, remember all that aboutNixon.Before Donald Trump, there`s a reason that Nixon is the standard bearer fora scandal-ridden, disgraced president. But because of that, because of theway it ended, we sometimes forget that beyond Watergate beyond all of thosemarquee Nixon scandals, he was a pretty terrible president in other ways.And one of the ways in which Nixon showed his sort of radical power madside is, you know, not just organizing break-ins and having that CIA try tocover them up for him and all that`s all that cloak and dagger stuff, it`sstuff that he did as president in the light of day, including him claimingnew power for himself as president that basically turned Congress off likea switch.We all know how it works Congress passes laws, Congress passes a budget.Congress appropriates money for the government to do stuff but Nixon whenhe was president he decided forget that -- forget those constitutionalstrictures. He instead would take control of that process himself.And so, he started you -- you heard Tom Brokaw say this in that report fromJuly 1974 about impounding money. That`s what Nixon was doing. He starteddoing something they called impounding money that had been appropriated byCongress. This is something he did not just with small stuff but withbillions of dollars.Congress would appropriate money for a purpose within the government theywould fund a program or an agency. But if Nixon didn`t like that program orthe agency, he decided that he had the power to just take all that moneyand refuse to allow it to be spent. He would impound the funding that hadbeen appropriated by Congress. That`s irrigating to himself what they callthe power of the purse which is what Congress`s main power is.I mean, like our country or don`t, that`s fundamental to who we are as arepublic. It`s Congress that gets to decide how money is spent in thegovernment and Nixon in his presidency took that power for himself andCongress was very unhappy about it. And so, when President Nixon was on theropes, when he was embroiled in scandal, and on the precipice, we now knowof having to resign the presidency in disgrace, Richard Nixon signed a newlaw that cut himself short.Signed a new law that was designed to stop him from being able to do thisthing that he had been doing. He signed a new law that would prevent anyfuture president from bogarting the budget, from bogarting moneyappropriated by Congress the way he had been. It gave Congress a wholebunch of new powers when it came to the budget, to try to constrain apresident who was sticking his nose where it didn`t belong.And that law which Nixon in extremis at the very end signed that lawincluded one tweak one little power that Congress gave itself with this newlaw it`s a quirky little thing that they could do only once per budget.Since Congress is supposed to do a budget once per year that meant Congresscould do this thing only once per year. It was originally designed in thatbill to give Congress a small window, basically a last chance, to makeafter the fact changes once they had set their budget for the year, andthey could make those changes with just the majority vote in the House andthe Senate.This was not intended from the outset to be a very big deal. This was notintended from the outset to be a fundamental change in the way the countrydoes its business, in the way the various branches work together. But itended up becoming very important over the years.I mean, this overall reform that Nixon signed in 1974 was to give Congressthe tools that they needed to set the budget, to oversee the allocations ofmoney as they saw it, without being locked down on the process or workaround by a president like Nixon who was trying to take those powers forhimself.Nixon signs it in 1974, less than a month before he resigned, signs that onthe day his top aide was convicted on multiple felonies. It`s this sort of-- it looks like a footnote to that much bigger news of that scandal atthat time.But what Nixon signed went into effect for the first time in 1980 over theensuing 41 years, what that little tweak has turned into is somethingthat`s a very big deal. What it has turned into is a means by which theSenate can pass stuff without needing 60 votes, that needing a supermajority to do it. It`s a means by which the Senate can pass some stuff aslong as it pertains to the budget with just 51 votes, and they can do thatonce per budget, and it`s because of that Nixon reform that he signed in1974.And now, this year in 2021, with all the once in a lifetime craziness thatwe are contending with as a country, with the outgoing president havingbeen impeached twice and with him due to go on trial again in the UnitedStates Senate next week even though he`s already gone from office, with anongoing and indeed accelerating global pandemic having killed moreAmericans in the past year than were killed in the whole length of WorldWar II, with an economy just squashed by the pandemic, putting moreAmericans on the unemployment rolls every week than we have seen at anytime since the Great Depression, with the country having just voted out thelatest Republican president who made Nixon`s scandals look quaint andhaving voted Republicans out of control of the House and the Senate too butnarrowly in each case.Now, today, that you know page six of "The New York Times" 17 minutes intothe newscast footnote, that tweak in the way the budget gets done inWashington is going to make all the difference in the world as to whetheror not now the Democratic Party having control of the presidency and thehouse and the Senate is going to be enough for this new president to getbig lasting things passed to try to help the country in all of the crisesthat we are in now. These are the policies roughly as shorthanded by me andI take full responsibility for any of these things that aren`t that don`tend up being proposed exactly this way.But roughly, these are the priorities that the Biden administration and theDemocratic-led Congress have said they want to get done. First, it`s whatthey`re calling the American Rescue Plan, the COVID relief. This is fundingfor the national vaccination program and a stimulus check for Americanfamilies and another round of help to our suffering small businesses andhelp for cities and states so the economic crunch from the pandemic doesn`tforce them to start laying off cops and firefighters and paramedics andteachers and all the rest.It extends the ban on evicting people from their apartments or foreclosingon their homes during the pandemic. It extends the pause on people havingto repay their federal student loans it puts extra money in people`sunemployment checks. It includes a really overdue hike in the federalminimum wage. So that`s one. That`s the American Rescue Plan, that`s COVIDrelief bill.There`s also their jobs and infrastructure bill. This is basically aneconomic rescue and infrastructure plan. It includes a big focus ondomestic manufacturing. There`s a lot in there about transportation lots ofinvestments and things that will both help the economy and help withclimate issues like emission standards and stuff. This is a lot of whatBiden campaigned on, Build Back Better.They also want immigration reform, including an eight-year-long path tocitizenship for immigrants and reforms and rationalization on bordersecurity and on applying for asylum and on the treatment of refugees very,very, very long overdue immigration reform they want to do that.And there`s democracy, voting rights and shoring up democracy. They`recalling this one HR-1 in the House and S1 in the Senate, meaningnumerically, it`s the first bill in both Houses of Congress. This includesthe John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.It puts a stop to partisan gerrymandering it makes it so every state has afloor they can`t go below in terms of providing for early voting and same-day voter registration and other things that open up the voting process tomake it easier for people to vote. It blocks states from messing withvoting by mail. It standardizes and makes voter registration the normnationwide instead of something that states tinker with and try to makehard when certain parties see it to their advantage. And it`s got a wholelot more into it. That`s in -- but that`s some of it.In very rough terms, again, I`m -- I take responsibility for leaving outsome stuff and maybe overstating or understating some other things, butthis is basically how I understand it. These are the four things they areaiming at from the outset. These are not you know executive orders orresolutions or statements of intent or anything else that can be reversedwith this -- with the -- with the sweep of a pen by the next president.This is law. This -- these would be big leaps forward in terms of law,congressionally passed real durable legislation that will change and reformthings in big ways in the country, big moves to try to handle thesemultiple crises that we have been struggling through and how they can doit. This is all stuff that has to be done through Congress.Now in the House, Democrats have a narrow majority, but they have amajority and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi knows how to get things passed witha Democratic majority. The issue is the Senate. In the Senate, Senate rulessay that the minority party can filibuster almost anything, which in effectmeans that they can require 60 votes to pass legislation. There are only 50Democratic senators in the Senate, and you know on some issues maybe aRepublican senator, or two or three. Hey, let`s be optimistic, let`s sayfour or five or six Republican senators might cross over and side with theDemocrats on some piece of legislation maybe.But come on, it`s just not going to happen on anything big. And even ifthey could get one, two, three, four, five, six Republican senators tocross over on something, it certainly never going to be 10 Republicansenators to cross over to vote with Democrats on anything at all, let alonesomething big and substantive. Republicans just don`t operate that wayanymore.I mean, under their leader, Senator Mitch McConnell, you could not getRepublican senators to vote for a resolution that said moms are good andice cream`s cold and tasty. I mean, there`s just no way they would do it.And so, Richard Nixon and that tweak that he signed in high summer 1974,less than a month before he resigned, to basically clip his own wings afterthe way that he had been trying to arrogate the powers of Congress tohimself. That tweak that he signed which was sort of a miracle that hesigned it, he probably never would have had he not been in such trouble buthe signed that tweet that gives Congress new ways to wrangle the budget,including one neat trick where the Senate can pass stuff once per budget ina way that gets around a filibuster and lets you just pass something with amajority.That`s heaven and earth right now. That is -- that is black and white, thatis night and day, that is up and down. That is going to be the difference.Put back up that list of stuff that Biden and the Democratic Congress wantsto do again as we roughly understand it. And again, this is rough. Rememberthis is just my shorthand and in most cases we haven`t seen the bills yetso this is just sort of my expectations roughly based on conversations withpeople who know these things what we`ve seen in the press and what theWhite House and the Democrats have explained, four main things.Well, that gift that we got from Richard Nixon, that gift -- that tweakthat says once per budget, you can pass something just with a majority,just with 51 votes, once per budget, you can use the budget reconciliationprocess to pass something with just a majority which Democrats have just ontheir own, well, you can only do that once per budget resolution.Here is the unusual wrinkle in the Democrats favor. It turns out there wasno budget resolution passed last year. They still didn`t do last year`sbudget resolution and, of course, they haven`t done this year yet either.So even though that 40-year-old gift from Richard Nixon usually means youcan use this reconciliation process to pass stuff with 50 votes once peryear in the Senate, this year, they get two budget resolutions. Theyactually get to do it twice, which is a windfall.But put back up that list of things they want to do. That is still notenough to pass this stuff that they want to do, right, with just a majorityvote, with just Democratic votes if they need to do it that way. Thinkabout it -- are they going to get Republican votes for any of these things?Likely not, right? They can only use that one neat trick to pass thingswith just a majority of votes twice. It`s amazing that they can do ittwice.That inheritance from Richard Nixon is enough, we think, to pass two ofthese two big ambitious legislative lifts the two that are highlighted hereare the ones that we think they`re going to go for. What does that do forimmigration reform? What does that do for voting rights and shoring updemocracy? What does that do with everything else they want to pass throughlegislation in Congress?And the other hurdle here is that anything they want to pass by thisprocess, they have to make the case to the Senate parliamentarian thateverything in that bill is materially related to the budget. If it`s notbudget related, they can`t do it with just a majority vote.But bottom line, using the reconciliation process, they can pass two bigpackages of legislation this year, if the Democrats hang together even ifthey get zero Republican votes. If they want to pass anything else besides,they only have two options. They`re either going to have to persuade 10Republican senators to cross over, and again, 10 Republican senators likelywould not cross over to vote with the Democrats to proclaim kittens to besoft right, let alone to vote with Democrats on something like immigrationreform, or COVID relief, or infrastructure, or voting rights. Are youkidding me? Ten Republican senators? Seriously?They can either persuade Republicans to leave their bodies and do somethingthat they are constituently incapable of doing in this era of theRepublican Party or their other option if they want anything passed at allwhile Joe Biden is president if they want anything other than the twothings they can do for reconciliation to pass, the only other thing theycan do is to vote themselves, all the Democrats, to get rid of thefilibuster, to get rid of that in the Senate, to make it so a majority votecarries the day on all legislation from here on out and there`s no morevote threshold.They can do something, specifically we think they can do two packages oflegislation, all of which has to relate to the budget without the help ofRepublicans. But that`s all they`re going to be able to do unless they cankill the filibuster or unless Republicans suddenly have a massive change ofheart. Don`t bet on it.And I know this seems like you know us government trivia, it seems likemarginalia. It seems like something vestigial we never noticed during thecratering of the disastrous Nixon presidency. But it has become the onething that determines if we can do anything substantive to get our countryout of the mess that we are in if we can apply the power of government tomaking lasting change to address the fundamental problems where we are, togive a vaccination program funding nationwide to give the American peoplerelief from the economic and health disaster that we are in right now, toshore up our democracy, to support and both buttress voting rights, tofinally reform and rationalize our absolutely broken immigration system,right?If we want to do any of those things, that`s where we are now. And theWhite House has so far been avoiding talking about things in these terms Ithink because it`s a little too stark, right? It`s not the way thatPresident Biden in particular likes to talk about the differences betweenthe two parties and the prospects of the two parties working together. Helikes to project optimism on that front.I think they don`t talk about things in terms of this stark because theythink it`s too negative in outlook in terms of what Republicans are likenow and what they`re likely to do even for a good cause and for thecountry. But this is where we are, I`m telling you and it makes it verysimple in terms of how we think about the road ahead and the prospects forgetting stuff done, and it means that Democrats are running very, very,very quickly into very hard decisions about how much they are willing to doto get things done for the country.And the new White House press secretary joins us live in just a moment.Stay with us tonight. I think this is going to be good.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JOE BIDEN, THEN-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What happened -- parents wereripped, their kids were ripped from their arms and separated, and now theycannot find over of sets of those parents and those kids are alone, nowhereto go, nowhere to go. It`s criminal. It`s criminal.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: That was candidate Joe Biden at the final presidential debate thispast fall just excoriating President Trump for this -- the Trumpadministration`s policies of taking little kids away from their moms anddads at the border and then never reuniting hundreds of those families.Well, the week after that debate, just a few days before the election, theBiden campaign released a TV ad that featured that portion of the debateand it said -- the ad said that if elected on his first day as president,Joe Biden would create a federal task force to start the process of findingand reuniting those hundreds of kids with their parents.Well, now, Joe Biden is president and whatever is going to happen in termsof immigration reform and the president`s immigration legislation inCongress, there is still this very pressing issue of hundreds of kids takenaway from their parents by the Trump administration who still haven`t beenreunited with them. President Biden did not create a task force on thisissue on on day one as his campaign said he would but we have been toldthat they are working on announcing something soon.And we did get this interesting development this week when the first lady`soffice announced that her chief of staff will be working directly on theissue of reuniting separated families. CNN reported that First Lady JillBiden herself will give input to the task force that they are setting up toreunite these kids with their parents. That suggests this is both still ahigh priority for the Biden administration and that this is going to be ahigh profile thing, anything a first lady is involved in tends to be a highprofile thing.But the question remains, how are they going to do this? Why has there beena delay from something they said they do on day one?President Biden had been expected to issue the executive order creatingthis task force as of tomorrow, as of Friday. But now, it appears to havebeen delayed again. Sources telling NBC News` Julia Ainsley, Jacob Soboroffand Geoff Bennett that President Biden`s immigration executive orders,including this task force to reunite separated families those orders arebeing delayed, quote, by at least a few days. So, at least in our reportingthus far, we don`t know what is causing these delays.When should we expect the president to take action and what should weexpect from this task force that he`s promised that hasn`t yetmaterialized?Joining us now is Jacob Soboroff, MSNBC correspondent. He`s the author ofthe book "Separated: Inside An American Tragedy". Jacob`s really been atthe forefront of covering this issue from the beginning and he joins ustonight from the border in Otay Mesa, California.Jacob, it`s great to see you. Thanks for being here.JACOB SOBOROFF, MSNBC CORRESPONDENT: Thanks for having me, Rachel.MADDOW: So you have been covering this for a long time, where do you -- Imean, bottom line, where do you think we are in terms of getting someaction toward reuniting these families? What do you understand about thepace at which the administration is working and why this rollout is slowerthan they told us to expect?I think if President Biden Rachel was able to launch his task force andannounce the plan on day one, he would have done it. But what I think theBiden administration is now learning is that this is extraordinarilycomplicated, and it`s complicated not just because of the cruelty and theintentionality that went into this policy to separate 5,000 kids -- over5,000 kids from their parents, including Miss L. who was separated and thendetained, the namesake of the lawsuit that won the reunification of all thefamilies right here in Otay Mesa, but also because after the separations,there are so many different distinct groups of separated families and howultimately President Biden and his administration will deal with them.What is the relief that they will offer? Will they bring people back fromthat side of the border uh who were separated and their children remain onthis side? Will they bring parents deported with their children back to theUnited States? Will they designate them victims of crimes? There`s allkinds of questions they have to answer, and I`m not so sure that they`veanswered them all yet.MADDOW: Is part of the issue, Jacob, part of the complexity andpotentially the delay here, the issue of accountability? As you say, youknow, should they be defined -- these folks be defined as victims ofcrimes?Is it possible that of government personnel, whether they`re people inWashington or people who effectuated this policy on the border, may havecommitted crimes in doing so and that this should be treated as somethingfor which individual people working for the Trump administration andcarrying out this policy on behalf of the Trump administration might findthemselves legally in trouble for what they did?SOBOROFF: I think it`s a critical question and what vice president nowPresident Biden meant when he was a candidate, you know, saying it`scriminal, it`s criminal. He told our colleague Geoff Bennett that heintended for his Justice Department to conduct a, quote, thoroughinvestigation. Well, that Justice Department has provided a road map intopotential criminality with this inspector general report that by namepointed out many key officials in the Trump administration for purposelyimplementing this policy, including Gene Hamilton, a counselor to JeffSessions, Jeff Sessions himself.And they say in this inspector general`s report that now the Bidenadministration has, that when they did this the plan wasn`t necessarilyjust to separate and prosecute people here at the border butadministratively separate. So we talk about five thousand people beingseparated. We now know that that number could be far higher tens ofthousands if not a hundred thousand in the time period had they separatedeveryone.And so, now, it won`t be up to this task force which will be led byAlejandro Mayorkas we understand, the secretary designated of HomelandSecurity, in consultation with HHS and as well as State, but separately,will this Department of Justice investigate this and ultimately pursuecriminal charges?MADDOW: Wow. Remarkable. Jacob Soboroff, MSNBC correspondent who again hasbeen on this story literally from day one, Jacob, thanks for your timetonight. I really appreciate you joining us particularly from where you arethere on the border tonight.SOBOROFF: Thank you, Rachel.MADDOW: All right. As I mentioned, President Biden`s new White House PressSecretary Jen Psaki joins us live next for the interview, very much lookingforward to speaking with her. That`s next.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: By the time she joined then-Senator Barack Obama`s campaign as atraveling press secretary in 2008, Jen Psaki already had a prettyimpressive resume under her belt. She`d already worked on a presidentialcampaign. She`d served as a member of John Kerry`s staff during his run forpresident in 2004.Before that, she spent time as a communications director on Capitol Hill.She`d done a stint at the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.Given that experience, it`s no wonder that when she joined the Obamacampaign in 2008, she quickly sort of became a fixture. When PresidentObama ultimately was elected, Jen Psaki would go on to serve as White Housedeputy press secretary and then as deputy communications director.After working on the president`s reelection campaign in 2012, she shiftedto a role as State Department spokesperson where she did daily briefingsand she attracted whatever the opposite of a fan club is from the Russiangovernment in particular.Jen Psaki would later finish out the Obama administration as White Housecommunication director.So, tonight, as she joins us, Jen Psaki is just eight days into this newrole as White House press secretary, the most visible communications rolein all of U.S. government.But this is not day eight of Jen Psaki`s -- Jen Psaki`s responsibility injobs like this. This is a woman who knows what she`s doing. She`s beenthrough it already.Joining us now for the interview is White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki.Jen, it is really nice of you to come on the show tonight. I know you haveevery option in the world. Thanks for being here.JEN PSAKI, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Oh, great to be here. Thank you.Thanks for having me.MADDOW: It is hard for those of us in the press and in the public to getused to there being a White House press briefing every day again. We wereaccustomed to it for so long and when it went away, we lost those musclesimmediately. And it feels actually even sometimes hard to keep up.How is it going from your perspective?PSAKI: Well, on the first day, I have to be honest, I got some texts fromfriends who said things like, "the world is counting on you", "we`rewatching you, and hopefully it all goes okay."And there`s a little bit of pressure on your shoulders, but, you know, I am-- I am honored that I get to serve in this role and to serve for thispresident who, you know, every day is willing to answer my questions andwants to make sure that we`re on the same page about the tone we`re sendingand what he`s thinking about issues.And, you know, the job is hard but that makes the job a bit easier. So, sofar, day eight, I haven`t started to worry (ph) yet, that`s good, andhopefully, I`m starting to lay the groundwork for rebuilding trust with thepublic. And that I think is really one of my primary goals at this point intime for, you know, this job.MADDOW: The trust with the public and not having such an adversarialrelationship with the press where the press feels like they are underassault and put at physical danger because of your words, that`s also anice -- that`s also a nice change from the previous experience from thebriefing room.But I have to say, like, I`m already feeling like, the presentation that weare hearing from you in the briefing room already feels, it is -- I trustit and I also feel like it`s too nice. I feel like the challenges that theadministration has on Capitol Hill are more stark than you have beentelling us in terms of the likelihood that Republicans are going to goalong with anything that President Biden wants to do.And so, it`s not -- it`s not a trust issue because I believe you aretelling the truth but I believe -- and I`m just going to put it right toyou -- I believe you are being too nice about what Republicans are likelyto do.Do you know something that we don`t or are you -- or is that a fairassessment?PSAKI: Well, look, first I think, you know, you take -- you take yourguidance from the person you work for. And for me, that`s President Biden.And he starts every day thinking I want to be able to work with Democratsand Republicans and there`s a reason they should work with me because thepieces that are in, for example, this COVID package that is the toppriority for him right now, are things the Democrats and Republicans acrossthe country support -- 70 percent of the public supports them.Are Republicans now against reopening schools? Are they against gettingunemployment insurance checks to the American people? Are they againstgetting vaccines in the arms of Americans?So we want to lay this out and speak directly to the people out in thepublic who are watching the briefing, too, sometimes or watching clips ofit, too, sometimes to really explain to them what we`re doing. So I promiseyou I`ve been in this town long enough, so has President Biden, nobody isnaive in the White House about how hard, it`s going to be and none of usthink that Republicans are just going to lay down and work with usovernight, but we feel like we have to try.And we have to lay out for the public what we`re trying to do. And that weare trying to work on in a bipartisan way. And then we have a range oftools at our disposal to get relief to the public if that doesn`t work out,and if they don`t take us up on it at every opportunity.MADDOW: One of those tools, of course, is reconciliation. I tried to layout at the top of the show tonight some of the history of how we got thebudget reconciliation process and how weird that is, but the fact thatbasically there`s probably two shots this year at being able to passsomething using that process, which would mean that you could passsomething would just a majority vote in the Senate, you wouldn`t need tenRepublicans to cross over, and beat a filibuster in order to do it.If there are two shots at that and that is going to be the way that some ofthis legislation moves, are we right to expect that that would be for theCOVID legislation, the American Rescue Plan, and also for the big jobs andinfrastructure bill, the building back better initiative?PSAKI: Well, I know there`s been some reporting on this, we haven`t evenproposed. The president hasn`t even proposed the package yet, which he`sgoing to do soon in coming weeks. But I would say on the COVID package, youknow, the challenge we`re facing right now, Rachel, as you know, and youtalk about this on your show, is there`s urgency here.You know, if we don`t have certainty, if the American people don`t havecertainty about being able to put food on the table when we hit thisunemployment cliff in March, if we aren`t able to plan for how we`re goingto reopen schools, you know, this can`t be a game that`s played where wewait and wait and wait and negotiate and negotiate and negotiate.We absolutely want it to be bipartisan, but this is one of the tools thatwe can use. As you explained on your show, it`s a parliamentary procedureor step. Now, even if it goes to reconciliation, Republicans can still votefor it. There`s no blood oath saying they can`t.So, we`ll keep trying until the end. But there`s an urgency here, andthat`s really our priority right now.MADDOW: And is it true that the president has been calling Republicansenators directly and trying to talk to them about their concerns andtrying to assess whether or not they might possibly be yes votes forsomething like this?PSAKI: Yes, it`s absolutely truth and having sat in the Oval Office withhim, you know, when he decides to make one of those calls, when he says hedoesn`t want to make one of those calls, he doesn`t really require a callsheet, or, you know, it`s kind of a very Washington term, but a sheet thattells him what to say to Congress and how to outline the bill. He knows.He`s known a lot of these people for decades. He has relationships that goway back, and it may feel foreign to people but his view is that it`sworking how it should work. He laid out his bill, he laid out what hisvision should be.He listened to really smart policy experts in the health area and,obviously, economists as well, and people are going to come back and say, Idon`t like this, I want this to be bigger, which some are saying, I wantthis to be smaller, what some Republicans are saying. And he`s going tohear them out and see what`s possible.And there are areas, for example, on the targeting of checks and makingsure they`re going most to people in need, that -- he`s happy to have thatconversation on. At the end of the day, he also has his principles and isnot going to break this bill up. He wants pieces that address the vaccines,pieces that address -- to ensure they`re getting checks to people to putfood on the table and money so we can to open schools.He`s not going to break it up but he`s happy to have a discussion about thecomponents of it and the size, and things along those lines, and that`swhat`s ongoing. But yes, he picks up the phone. Sometimes he says, great,I`ll call that, I`ll call senator so and so later today, or make sure Icall -- I call that senator, I call him back and have a conversation.And I think that`s -- that gives you a sense of how he`s going to govern.MADDOW: White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, would you mind staying withme for just a second? I have another couple of things I`d love to ask youfor. I have to take a quick break here.PSAKI: Sure, I`d love to.MADDOW: Right back with the press secretary after this. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: We`re back with White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki.Jen, thank you again for doing this. I really appreciate you being heretonight.One of the things you talked about today at the briefing was that we shouldexpect executive orders from President Biden next week in regards toimmigration. And that potentially includes what, for a lot of people, is along-awaited announcement about the reuniting of kids who were taken awayby their moms and dads by the Trump administration. We heard during thecampaign he planned to issue an executive order on day one forming a taskforce that would take on that and start working on that immediately. Ofcourse, that did not happen on day one.Can you give us an update on what we should expect on that front?PSAKI: Well, this is something that the president`s absolutely committedto, and you can expect you`ll hear more from him on it next week. And asyou`ve done reporting on and as Jake was just reporting on early in thisshow, you know, this is an issue people have been waiting on for some time,creating a reunification task force that can help finally bring some reliefto families who have been cruelly and immorally separated from -- as aresult of the policies of the last administration.So, there will be more from the president on that next week. He has had aflurry of executive actions and orders he has taken, including and also putout -- put forward some legislation, including a comprehensive immigrationbill, an immigration bill that addresses and tries to provide a pathway tocitizenship. But I know this is something people have been waiting on. Tunein next week.And also next week, Rachel, if I may add, you know, one of the areas wherehe is really focused is rebuilding institutions across government andrebuilding trust not just, of course, at the podium -- I promise not to beso nice tomorrow -- but also in the career public servants.And next week, he`s going to go visit the State Department and thank themfor all of the work they do and really showcase how government works andhow incredible the men and women who serve and have been serving fordecades are. And that`s something that I know is close to his heart andsomething we hope to highlight next week too.MADDOW: In terms of the task force on reuniting kids, it`s been said thatpossibly the new homeland security secretary, soon to be SecretaryMayorkas, would be heading up the task force. It`s also been reported thatthe First Lady Jill Biden and her office, her chief of staff, may beinvolved in someway with that task force.Can you just -- can you confirm that for us and tell us more about what weshould expect there? Obviously, this is something where the Americanpeople, I think it`s fair to say, feel like this is a gaping moral woundthat needs to be fixed. There are questions potentially of criminalliability for officials who effectuated this policy under Trump.Can you give us a little bit more about how that will work?PSAKI: Sure. And some I can give you and I will say, you know, when --initially when reports of families being separated was happening, wascovering all the news, my son was a baby and I think watching as a mother,it just still makes my heart hurt. So, I join many, many Americans who arewatching and others around the world.You know, I think this is an issue that Dr. Biden has taken -- paid closeattention to. And as a mother herself, that certainly will continue to bethe case. She actually met her chief of staff currently -- her currentchief of staff when they took a trip to the border together -- or they metprior to that, but they did take a trip to the border together. It will bean issue she follows closely.But we`ll see. She`s not going to be leading the task force or anything.I`m sure she`ll be following closely as Dr. Biden will as well.But I would expect Ali Mayorkas who will be confirmed soon will be playinga prominent role, leading this effort, overseeing it out of the Departmentof Homeland Security. And we`ll have more to share soon about the membersof the task force and how it will work as we look ahead to address thisreally horrific challenge.MADDOW: White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, thank you so much for yourtime this evening. It is fantastic to see you back at the podium every day.And I know that it is not an easy thing to do. But even when peopledisagree with you and even when you were describing things that were notpopular, the fact you were there doing it every day is really importantthing for our democracy.And it`s just -- it`s -- it`s the Lord`s work, so go with God.PSAKI: Thank you. Thank you, Rachel. Appreciate it. Thanks for what you doas well.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: I was as shocked as you were today to realize waking up that it`snot Friday. Today wasn`t Friday. But it has come to my attention that todaythe Friday eve. And that means more than you can possibly know.We`ll see you again tomorrow night.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>