Summary:Interview with "Huff Post" senior justice reporter Ryan Reilly.Interview with Andrea Young, executive director of the ACLU of Georgia.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST, "ALL IN": That is "ALL IN" on this Friday night.THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now. Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Thanks, Chris.And thanks to you at home for joining us. Happy to have you here.At this hour, the Senate appears to be back on track to pass the $1.9trillion COVID relief bill after what was a weird long delay.Senate Democratic leaders apparently have reached a deal with West Virginiaconservative Democratic Senator Joe Manchin. He had been holding out over aprovision to extend unemployment benefits. But an agreement announcedwithin the last hour seems to have brought to an end what had been a nine-hour-long stalemate in the Senate as Democrats and Republicans yanked onManchin`s arms to try to pull him in either direction to get him to sign onto their respective proposals.Bottom line, nothing much changes from earlier in the day. I don`t know whythis took nine hours. The resolution is apparently that the COVID reliefdeal will result in $300 a month boost -- $300 a week boost to unemploymentbenefits and that will be extended through the beginning of September,September 6th. That`s pretty much the way things were going to be as ofthis morning be there are some tweaks in terms of the taxability of thesebenefits. It seems like small changes for a nine-hour delay.Nevertheless, they seem to have broken through. We`ll keep an eye on thisand bring you more as news develops. We are expecting the session -- theSenate to stay in session as they continue to fight these things out. TheCapitol building where all these senators are negotiating and votingtonight is still surrounded by thousands of National Guard troops as it hasbeen since the U.S. Capitol attack on January 6th.Even now, two months later, there are moments from the attack on theCapitol that still stick with you. Certain rioters, certain things thatthey did on camera, on tape, that get seared into your brain once you`veseen them. This is one of those moments.A man in a very distinctive stars and stripes jacket with "Trump"emblazoned in big letters on the back, flag jacket there. He steps uptoward the Capitol police guarding the doorway. He unloads a fireextinguisher at them at close range. And when the fire extinguisher appearsto run out, he then chucks the fire extinguisher itself at the police. Thepolice officers are under siege. He chucks it at them as hard as he can.There have been over 300 arrests connected to the Capitol attack on January6th but that guy is not among them. He`s still at large despite thatviolent, deliberate attack on Capitol police officers that day that iscaught on tape. But we now know who that guy is for sure. Thanks toreporters Ryan Reilly and Jesselyn Cook at ""Huffington Post." They reachedhim at phone and got him to confirm, yeah, that was me.Today they published a story revealing who he is and how they found himwith the help of a remarkable amateur citizen detective. They also revealedthat that amateur detective who tracked this guy down has been trying toalert the FBI to this guy`s identity and his whereabouts for over a monthwithout any discernible results from the FBI side. It`s an amazing story ofhow this unfolded. It starts with Amy. Here`s how they describe her.Quote, Amy, a woman living in a rural area out west who in her free timejoined the Sedition Hunters network, an online sleuthing community seekingto identify the hundreds of Trump support hoarse rioted at the Capitol. Amyis a pseudonym she chose to protect her privacy. While those rioters werestorming the Capitol, quote, Amy was homesick. She`d contracted COVID-19and was getting restless while recovering in isolation.After watching in horror as the insurrection unfolded, she decided to useher time in quarantine poring over footage from the attack and trying totrack down individual rioters. She worked with Capitol hunters as theytried to mine through a seemingly endless flow of photos and videosassigning hashtags and memorable nicknames to various persons of interestto try to bring order to chaos.She went through every clip pulled from the right-wing social media websiteParler. She kept going through videos and photos of the attack. Soon, the#Floridaflagjacket drew Amy`s attention. She recalled, quote, I got lockedon to this guy and the jacket because the jacket is so unique.This guy quote wasn`t very incognito. He`s already distinctive jacket wasembroidered with Trump on the front and back and his Florida for Trump hatoffered a strong hint about what was his home state.Now, another online investigator found a video of the Florida flag jacketguy from later in the day on January 6th. In that video, he speaks to ajournalist who`s filming him live as cops pushed the mob back. In thatvideo, he holds up his shirt to show off a big bruise on his stomachapparently from a crowd control munition fired by police.Then he looks straight into the camera and identifies himself. RobertPalmer from Clearwater, Florida.Amy felt like she had nailed it. She sent in a tip to the FBI. And then"Huffington Post" reports, quote, she waited, and waited. And waited.And that`s when Ryan Reilly and Jesselyn Cook, reporters, got involved inthe story. Amy sent her tip about Florida flag jacket guy, Robert Palmer,to them at "Huffington Post." They were able to verify his identity throughpublic records and social media accounts.And then they called him. Quote, reached by phone late Thursday afternoon,Palmer confirmed he was at the Capitol on January 6th and gave thelivestream interview. He claimed he`d done nothing to justify being struckwith that police condition and that the Biden administration was trying tovilify the patriots who were involved in the riot.Palmer continued, quote, I`m just going about it and letting them make themistakes that they want and ruin the country as they want and I`m trying tolive my life right now. He added the jacket he wore quote wasn`t anything Ihad made special. I just bought it in a store.Mr. Palmer seemed to grow increasingly anxious as the call continued,quote: I`m just going to just leave it like that, I`m not getting myselfany -- not deeper because I didn`t do anything wrong but I`m not involvingmyself anymore.Quote: He hung up when "Huffington Post" asked about the fire extinguisher.Yeah, the fire extinguisher he threw at the police. I bet he did.And this, in fact, is not the first Capitol attacker these reporters at"HuffPo" have tracked down. A week ago, they published a remarkable storyidentifying a man seen on video tasering a D.C. metropolitan officer in theneck. Identified as Daniel Joseph Rodriguez, D.J. Rodriguez, from Fontana,California.That police officer, Mike Fanone, has memorably described his experiencebeing beaten and tasered by the Capitol mob. He was tasered enough hesuffered a mild heart attack.But Daniel Rodriguez, the guy that "HuffPo" identified as being one of hisattackers, one of the people who tased him, is still at large. We know whathis name and is where he is. And have evidence that he did it. Still atlarge.Ryan Reilly and Jesselyn Cook report, quote: The FBI received tips aboutRodriguez last month, including one from a man he assaulted on video at aLos Angeles-area rally. It wasn`t until hours after a "Huff Post" interviewto the bureau for this story a tipster heard from a FBI special agent forquestions specifically about a man named Danny Rodriguez.So what`s going on here? I mean, the FBI, we have seen as they have put outall these requests for information on Capitol rioters, these ongoing postsby the FBI Washington field office and the FBI full stop, they keep postingthese images and zoomed-in, cropped photos on individual rioters andattackers, asking the public, do you know who this person is? They reallydo that every day. It`s very visually striking notices when they put themout, even today.Today, FBI Washington field office put out more of these today. These werejust from today. This was yesterday. The FBI seeking information from thepublic about people involved in various assaults on federal officers onJanuary 6th.This was the day before that. New photo. FBI seeking information from thepublic.And listen, actually right now, you watching at home, if you recognize anyof these people, the FBI really would like to hear from you. But it`s worthasking questions now as to what exactly the FBI is going to do with thatinformation once they get it. Because in a few high-profile cases, it seemslike these very credible tips and this journal stick work hasn`t produced alaw enforcement response.Robert Palmer, Florida flag jacket guy, who is on video spraying a fireextinguisher at police officers and then hurling it at them, he`s still atlarge. And as far as we can tell from this latest reporting, the FBI stillhas not gone and talked to him. And he`s one of the people who the FBI putout calls for information on.Like -- he`s one of the people who the FBI put out one of these noticesabout. He`s got a number in the FBI database in terms of which bad guythey`re looking for, number 246. And still after Amy, the tipster withCOVID out west, after she sent this info to the FBI over a month ago, andeven after "The Huffington Post" published this great reporting today, heis fill at large and still considered by them to be a number.Hey, guy number 246 has been identified. And he says it`s him. And we knowwhere he lives and what his name is. He wouldn`t be that hard to find now.It`s phenomenal reporting. And it is this fascinating phenomenon ofcivilians, random people, who are crowd sourcing an effort to try to findpeople who committed serious crimes, particularly violent crimes on January6th at the Capitol attack. Why are tipster Amy and Ryan Reilly and JesselynCook from "HuffPo" all over this guy, but law enforcement isn`t?Questions. Questions like that is frankly why it seems to me both wrong andweird now that the Justice Department isn`t regularly briefing the publicanymore on arrests and prosecutions and progress in the January 6thinvestigation. Remember immediately after the Capitol attack, we werewaiting for some sort of public law enforcement briefing and didn`t get onefor days. For a few days running we got briefings from the U.S. attorney atthe D.C. U.S. attorney`s office about arrests and people they were seeking,potential charges they were going to face.But that`s been a long time now. They haven`t briefed the public sinceJanuary 26th. And there is turnover of an unusual kind in that office thatis running the January 6th investigation.The U.S. attorney`s office in D.C., that was such a troubled office, right,where Trump Attorney General Bill Barr installed all of his staffers inpositions to replace people who were otherwise basically normal justicedepartment personnel. They used that D.C. U.S. attorney`s office to get allof Donald Trump`s friends out of trouble, to go after Donald Trump`senemies.At least until this week, that U.S. attorney`s office and the January 6thinvestigation was still being run by a former personal aide to Bill Barrwho had been installed in that office under bizarre circumstances, untilthe Biden administration took the unusual step just this week of installingtheir own acting U.S. attorney in that office so they don`t have to waituntil they nominate and confirm a permanent U.S. attorney there. They canhave their own guy running the place as of now.D.C. U.S. attorney`s office has behaved in very recent history in a waythat requires some public explanation in terms of weird politically driveninterference in the law enforcement responsibilities of that office. Butthat is also the office that`s handling the January 6th investigation, andwe are now not getting any public explanation of anything from that officeabout what`s going on with the January 6th investigation. We haven`t heardanything from them for over a month now.Listen, there`s a lot. There`s a lot that`s wrong in federal lawenforcement and at the Justice Department with the legacy Bill Barr leftthere. The Trump administration`s Justice Department is a smoking hulk. Andit`s going to take repair and it`s going to take accountability to figureout all the things that went wrong and to fix them.Just today, the "Associated Press" is reporting one of the many messes thatawaits Biden`s Attorney General nominee Merrick Garland once confirmed iswhat he`s going to do about the federal criminal investigation into Trumpattorney Rudy Giuliani, because the Trump Justice Department last year, aswe first reported, quashed a search warrant for Giuliani`s communicationssought by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. MainJustice, Trump appointees, quashed that and said, no, you cannot get thatsearch warrant.The investigation of Giuliani remains open, prosecutors remain interestedin pursuing him. How does Main Justice clean up the fact that Trumpappointees blocked it in the past?There also remains the open question of how that U.S. attorney in Georgiagot forced out by the White House after the election when he reportedlyrebuffed Trump White House demands that he bring bogus voter fraud chargesto try to support Trump`s efforts to overthrow the election in Georgia?They forced his resignation after demanding that he bring bogus voter fraudcharges. That seems like something we shouldn`t just let go.There`s the fact that one of the senior Trump political appointees in theJustice Department apparently offered he would tell the state of Georgiathey had to void their election results and declare Donald Trump to be thewinner as part of a bid he was making that Donald Trump supported, toinstall that guy as attorney general. They tried to install him as attorneygeneral. It was only staved off at the last moment by a mass resignationthreat from everybody else left in the department.Wait a minute. That all happened, and not that long ago. And the MerrickGarland nomination has so far been held up by Senate Republicans, so wedon`t know how long it`s going to take to get him in there. We don`t knowhow he`s going to behave once he is in there. Boy is that a mess.That office and the senior levels of the Justice Department interfering inthat office, that is a disaster that we are underestimating the cost of andthe complexity of in terms of how that is going to be healed and held andmade right. The nexus, though, where those things come together in the D.C.U.S. attorney`s office, that`s where the January 6th investigation ishappening, too.How much that is overall mess with Bill Barr`s treatment of the JusticeDepartment, how much is that making it harder for the Justice Department toexecute the January 6th investigation effectively, because we know thereare people at large who have been accused of committing some of the mostviolent acts that day who have been found by online investigators andjournalists, who the FBI hasn`t gotten around to yet. That doesn`t seemright.There`s developments around January 6th even just today. Congressman EricSwalwell of California today sued Donald Trump for inciting the Capitolriot. Congressman Swalwell is suing Donald Trump Jr. and Rudy Giuliani andAlabama Congressman Mo Brooks for their roles he says in inciting thatriot.Swalwell is suing under a civil rights law originally passed to try tocombat threats from the Klan. Congressman Swalwell, if he sounds familiar,he`s the second member of Congress to sue Trump for the attack under thatlaw. The first case brought by Mississippi Congressman Betty Thompson. Nowtwo cases brought against Trump under that same civil rights statute.Congressman Swalwell`s lawsuit also alleges that Trump and his associatesbroke several other local Washington, D.C. laws when they incited thatriot, including an anti-terrorism law. So, there`s now those two civilsuits against the president around January 6th. Either/or both of which maylead to among other things discovery which might allow the courts to turnup more evidence about people at the political level who were involved inthe events that led to the violence that day.Also tonight, just before we got on the air, news concerning how lawmakersmight try to address some of the security concerns that stem from theattack. Less than two weeks after the attack happened, Speaker Pelosiannounced retired Lieutenant General Russell Honore who led relief effortsduring Hurricane Katrina, he would lead a top to bottom-review of securityfailures at the Capitol that day. "The New York Times" has obtained a copyof that report, posted it online.It recommends among other things the establishment of a standing quick-reaction force at the Capitol to respond to immediate security threats.They want to change the process to allow Capitol police to activate thatkind of a unit or to more quickly call up the National Guard.General Honore`s report according to "The Times" recommends adding over 800U.S. Capitol police officers to the force. Not only to help protect membersof Congress in Congress while they`re in D.C., also in their home districtsas well. They want -- the recommendation is also the Capitol should have a-- essentially retractable barrier, a retractable fence installed aroundthe U.S. Capitol complex which they could open or shut, like the walkwayover a moat, I guess, depending on the threat level.There`s a lot of the things happening even just in the past 24 hours to tryto get accountability and try to make things right after what happened onJanuary 6th. But one of the most unnerving parts of all this is the factthat the effort to try to track down the people who stormed the Capitolthat day appears to be led in part by journalists and random civilianInternet sleuths doing this in their spare time. Finding some of the peopleaccused of some of the worst things themselves, because our nation`s toplaw enforcement agencies haven`t gotten around to it, even with all thehelp they are getting from those journalists and those amateurs.As inspiring as it might be about this kind of journalism and thoseamateurs and their detective work, it`s not actually how this is supposedto go.Joining us is now "Huff Post" senior justice reporter Ryan Reilly, whosereporting on this has been remarkable these last few weeks.Ryan, it`s nice to see you. Thanks for being here.RYAN REILLY, SENIOR JUSTICE REPORTER, HUFFINGTON POST: Thanks for havingme.MADDOW: First, let me give you a chance to correct me if I explained any ofthat wrong. I know you and your colleagues have done a lot of deep divingand you`ve had a lot of interesting interactions with members of the publicwho have been doing this work basically as freelancers. Did I misconstrueany of that? Or did I basically get it right?REILLY: No, not at all. I think you laid it out pretty well.MADDOW: In terms of the disappointment about the FBI not finding thesepeople faster than you did and not finding these people once you`ve evenpublished public-facing reporting about them, how -- how do you view that,the disconnect between the FBI apparently seeking these people and then notgoing out and getting them once you and your colleagues and some intrepidamateurs have been able to find them?REILLY: You know, I`ve covered the bureau for a long time. I think onething I`m constantly reminding myself of within these past couple ofmonths, is that, you know, it`s a bureau made up of normal people andcitizens. As much as it has a pop culture idea of it being this sort ofreally great crime-fighting force, which it is, you know, certainly beingthe most respected law enforcement organization in the United States.But it`s still made of humans. It`s this giant bureaucracy. And it doesn`thave necessarily the technological capabilities that even just amateurs cando on their own outside. You just think about the logistics of this, forexample. You`re imagining a lot of this is happening via email, right? Theyhave somewhat of an internal system, sort of IM system, communicate withinthe bureau.But it`s not what you can sort of do with these hashtags and organizing it.I mean, if you just look at the scope of this. It`s enormous. We`re talkingabout literally hundreds of thousands of tips to sort through and how doyou classify that information, and what sort of buckets does it go in, andwhat sort of ones do you leave out, put behind, which ones do youconcentrate on and say, this is something we really need to look atquickly?Because even just as an example, the tips that we`ve gotten, trying to sortthrough those, we`ve had to figure out, which ones are we going to say wereally need to focus on this, which ones are we going to have to leave bythe wayside? The FBI has to do the same thing, identify the people who hada lot of violence or the people who are easiest to grab, so you sort ofhave these two buckets at once. You have to figure out what path here goingto go down.But, you know, I think it is really frustrating for these citizen sleuthswho have put in a ton of work, who have been looking at this every day, tobe able to say, okay, I gave this tip a month ago, I haven`t heard anythingback yet. That`s frustrating. It sort of feels like that idea, if you threwsomething down a well and never heard about it again, or it feels like youput in a job application and never heard back.You`re sort of sitting around waiting. I`ve identified this person, what`shappening? What`s going on behind the scenes? Because of the FBI protocolsit makes it difficult for them to communicate with the public about whatexactly is happening.MADDOW: Uh-huh, although -- you and your colleagues reporting on this stuffand putting it on the front page at "Huffington Post" makes it much easierfor everybody to find these folks. Even if they`re not able to sort throughthe high-quality tips they`re getting.Ryan, do you feel like the slow transition at the Department of Justice,and there`s been an unusual transition at the D.C. U.S. attorney`s office,which is where the Justice Department part of this is being centered -- doyou feel like that transition and maybe the awkwardness of that transitionmight be part of the sort of bottleneck here, might be slowing up orotherwise hampering these efforts?REILLY: Yeah, I mean, we did see a lot of -- we did see a number of careerdepartures from within the U.S. attorney`s office in D.C., sort of in thatcontroversial period, obviously during the Trump administration. So youhave to sort of figure out exactly if that had any impact on the day today.But you know, there are also some -- if you look back even further, whatthe Trump administration was doing earlier, the most comparable case tothis I think is the J-20 arrests. Basically during Trump`s inauguration, anumber of anti-fascist protesters were arrested sort of en masse, kettled,essentially what should have happened at the Capitol on January 6th,because you had all these people in violation of the law.But during that first case, during the Trump inauguration, it was a bunchof people who were out on the street who are wearing similar clothing andjust really got the book thrown at them. The Justice Department reallystruck out with those cases. So, I think now, you know, they`re making surethat they have their ducks in a row when they`re bringing these chargesforward.It`s a properly good hurdle to have in place, right? If you`re arrestingsomeone and you`re charging them, that`s their name forever, right? This isgoing to be forever associated with anyone they bring charges against.Obviously, you want to make sure you have your ducks lined up in a row.But it is a lot of work, and it`s just something that they`re really goingto -- they`re really having a lot of trouble, I think, sort of organizingthat chaos. And that`s where these online sleuths come in and are sort ofable to put those pieces together in a way that overwhelmed bureaucratsmight not be able to and make those connections. It`s just a matter ofgetting those connections to the attention of the FBI.And sometimes it takes a journalist and a media inquiry to say, hey, what`sgoing on with this tip? That`s not only us, we`ve seen a lot of local newsreports that a lot of these cases are built off of, essentially, wheresomeone went back home and talked to their local TV station, and all of asudden, you know, there`s a criminal case against them. Might take a monthlater but it`s built on that interview they did with the local news.So, the media`s playing a big role here. And additionally, the media wasassaulted at this event. There are a number of people on that FBI list whowent after reporters. And that`s something that is being look at by the FBIas well.MADDOW: "Huffington Post" senior justice reporter Ryan Reilly, thank youfor your time tonight. Thank you and your colleagues for this reallyincredible reporting. It is a strange place to have to learn about theidentity of these folks when the FBI is seeking them. But it`s beautifulwork.Ryan, thanks very much for your time.REILLY: Thanks for having me.MADDOW: All right, much more ahead tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: He crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge for the last time in the horse-drawn carriage. The road was painted with rose petals in his honor. Fifty-five years prior, that same road held a good portion of his blood, whenJohn Lewis and others were attacked and beaten by police while trying tocross the Edmund Pettus Bridge on March 7, 1965. John Lewis was nearlybeaten to death.He and other marchers trying to go from Selma, Alabama, to the statecapital more than 50 miles away for voting rights, for equal access to theballot box.When Congressman Lewis died last year, mourners lined the streets to watchthat horse-drawn carriage take him on his final passage as cross thatbridge in Selma, because John Lewis -- joining with John Lewis to crossthat bridge has become an American hallmark. It`s a thing.Congressman Lewis over the course of his life led more than 600 othermarches across that bridge. They held a commemoration there every year tomark that Bloody Sunday in March 1965 when that voting rights march wasattacked. This year, it will be the first of those commemorations withoutJohn Lewis.At this year`s commemoration, because of the pandemic, people will not walktogether over the bridge. They will process over the bridge in cars. Theywill lay a wreath on the bridge in Congressman Lewis` honor.That will be Selma, Alabama, this weekend, 56 years, 56 anniversaries ofthat violent police attack on Americans protesting peacefully for theirright to vote.In Georgia, though, the state John Lewis represented in Congress for morethan three decades, Georgia right now is locked in its own modern-daycrackdown on the right to vote.Joining us now to talk about it is Andrea Young. She`s executive directorof the ACLU of Georgia. She was also, I have to tell you, at one of thosefamous walks across the Edmund Pettus Bridge with John Lewis, and withMartin Luther King, Jr.This one here, which is held just two weeks after Bloody Sunday, she was 10years old at the time. She was there with her dad, civil rights leaderAndrew Young.Ms. Young, it`s real honor to have you here with us tonight. Thank you somuch.ANDREA YOUNG, ACLU OF GEORGIA EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: It`s great honor. Thankyou so much for having me, Rachel.MADDOW: The voting rights battle is joined again. It seems like we havenever really ended this war. Can you just tell us so all our listenersunderstand what you`re contending with in Georgia right now?YOUNG: Yes. So, as you know, 5 million people voted successfully in ourlast election. Nevertheless, we face a tsunami of anti-voter bills in thislegislature. So, on Monday, we`re coming up on crossover day where we`llfind out how many of these anti-voter bills are going to continue to belive in our legislature. One has already passed, a bill that would -- thatbasically attacks every single way that people vote.It attacks early voting, it attacks same-day voting, it attacks vote bymail. And we`re looking at six others that are on the calendar now from theGeorgia Senate that would do further damage to access to the ballot.MADDOW: Do you anticipate that these bills, that these curbs on votingrights, will pass the legislature, they will be signed into law, andultimately this is going to be a little fight, that these are going to endup in court? Or do you think there is enough alarm and enough pushback thatsome of these may get stopped either in the legislature or at the level ofthe statehouse and the governor`s office before they become law?YOUNG: Well, Rachel, we are pushing back with everything that we can. Mystaff is every day at the Capitol, 7:00 a.m. hearings, analyzing everybill, educating every legislator, our ACLU members are calling, thousandsof them.And so, we (AUDIO GAP) we are seeing some success in pushing back. We knowthat actually all of these measures were put in place by Republicangovernors, Republican secretaries of state. And they were all fine until 5million people were successfully using them to elect the candidates oftheir choice.So, of course, ACLU, we are nonpartisan. We always will look at thelitigation options. But we are fighting. We plan to fight right throughmidnight on (INAUDIBLE) the last day.This weekend, the all-star game is coming into town. LeBron James I know israising up this issue. What happens in Georgia is of national importancebecause of how people like Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, and RaphaelWarnock will be up again in two years.MADDOW: Andrea Young, executive director of the ACLU of Georgia, right inthe middle of it and what is going to be a knock down, drag out fight thereover these issues, thank you. Come back soon. It`s good to have you here.YOUNG: Thank you. Great to be here.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: History was made today for the dumbest possible reason. Today inthe Senate, they have been trying to pass the COVID relief bill. Earlier inthe day, you might have seen headlines about the fact that the Senate tooka vote on Senator Bernie Sanders` proposal to raise the minimum wage to $15an hour. Now, that failed. All Republicans voted against it, and incrediblyeight Democrats voted against it as well, news in its own right.But after that, they started arguing in the Senate amongst themselves, theystarted arguing with Joe Manchin, about unemployment benefits in the COVIDrelief bill. They argued over that for nine hours. They ultimately blendedsomewhere, which is very, very close to where they started, but they hadnine hours of fighting about it.It turns out in that time they never technically gaveled shut the vote onBernie Sanders` minimum wage thing, which means accidentally we just hadthe official longest vote in Senate history by mistake for nine hours forno reason. Congratulations.As for the final passage of this bill, we`ve been expecting it sometimethis weekend. With this pointless nine-hour delay, it`s unclear whenthey`re going to see this thing getting passed. But watch this space.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: He was from Wichita, Kansas. There`s a high school, a Catholic highschool in Wichita, Kansas, named after him to this day. And this photo ison display at that high school.In the foreground of the photo, you can see you have these two Americansoldiers helping a third, helping a wounded man who`s got his hands up athis face balled into fists. The soldier on the left side of the photo who`shelping carry the wounded man with his left arm, in his right hand holdinghis rifle.You see another soldier in the background, his rifle as well. But look atthe soldier helping the wounded man on the right side of the photograph. Heis helping the wounded man. He is out there on the battlefield with all ofthem.If you look closely, you can see that he`s not carrying a gun. It`s notjust that he has one and you can`t see it because of the way the photo`sframed. He is, in fact, unarmed on that battlefield.And if you look at his helmet, you can see why. You see the cross there infront? He is an army chaplain. He`s a captain in the army serving here inthe Korean War, army chaplain, he`s a Catholic priest. He is name is EmilKapaun, Father Emil J. Kapaun. And his unit was overrun by Chinese forcesin fierce fighting in the Korean War in November 1950.The White House would later say in a commendation, Chaplain Kapaun calmlywalked through withering enemy fire in order to provide comfort and medicalaid to his comrades. His unit took so many casualties and their positionwas so hopeless as they were surrounded by Chinese troops that the men inthe unit who were not wounded and who were able-bodied enough to be able tomove, they were ordered to retreat to avoid being captured.And Chaplain Kapaun was able-bodied, he was not wounded, but he electedinstead to stay with the wounded men. And he and all of them were all takencaptive. They were marched for days on end. They were ultimately held formonths in subzero conditions and while starving. Part of what they were fedwas bird seed.The men who survived the ordeal later would fight for years, for decades,to have Chaplain Kapaun awarded the medal of honor, the highest award wehave in this country, because of what they said he did to protect and buoyall of the other prisoners to try to keep them alive through that terriblewinter of 1950 and 1951 while they were prisoners.He did everything from salvaging bits of tin roofing materials and thenreshaping them into cooking pots so the men could use those makeshiftcooking pots to boil their water so they wouldn`t get dysentery. He stolefood, he foraged food and distributed it among the prisoners. Any prisonersfound to be hoarding food, he persuaded them to share it. He washed men`sclothes.He led a sunrise mass on Easter morning, March 25th, 1951. All thesethings, his comrades, his fellow prisoners said he did to keep them allgoing. The soldiers he served with and held prisoner with, they said hesaved the lives of hundreds of men.And Chaplain Kapaun himself didn`t make it. He died in the prison camp inMay 1951. The Army says he died of exhaustion and possibly heart failure.He was all of 35 years old. He died in May 1951.More than 40 years later, in 1993, Pope John Paul II declared Emil Kapaun,Chaplain Kapaun, to be a servant of God, which as nice compliment for anybeliever. When the pope bestows that name on you, it means you have takenthe first step to potentially being canonized, potentially being declared asaint by the Catholic Church. That was 1993.Twenty years after that, in 2013, President Obama held a White Houseceremony to in fact award Chaplain Kapaun the Medal of Honor.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT: This year, we mark the 60th anniversary ofthe end of the Korean War, a time when thousands of our prisoners of warfinally came home after years of starvation and hardship and in some casestorture.And among the homecomings, one stood out. A group of our POWs emergedcarrying a large wooden crucifix nearly four feet tall. They had spentmonths on it, secretly collecting firewood, carving it, the cross and thebody, using radio wire for a crown of thorns.It was a tribute to their friend, their chaplain, their fellow prisoner whohad touched their souls and saved their lives, Father Emil Kapaun.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: That was 2013, eight years ago. Father Kapaun being awarded theMedal of Honor almost 62 years after he died in that prison camp.Well, today, today, 70 years after he died in that prison camp, today theU.S. army Announced that his remains have been located. He has been found.A statement today from Army Chief of Staff James C. McConville. Quote: TheDefense POW/MIA accounting agency announces today Korean War Medal of Honorrecipient, Army Chaplain Emil Joseph Kapaun, has been accounted for.Seventy years after his death.Now, I am not a good enough Catholic to know how the canonization processreally works in practice. I don`t know if they will ever confer officialsainthood upon him. But nationally, our country`s highest honor is one thathe has already received. And now, all these decades later, he has beenfound today, today.The same pope who put Father Kapaun potentially on the path to sainthood,Pope John Paul II, in the year 2000 when he was 79 years old, Pope JohnPaul II announced plans he was going to become the first pope ever inhistory to travel to Iraq. Iraq is the site of some of the oldest Christiancivilizations on earth. And in the year 2000, when Pope John Paul plannedto visit, there were only about 1.5 million Christians left in Iraq.But Christian communities there had found a way to survive. They were very,very resilient. Iraq is full of ancient holy sites for Christianity.There`s the plain of Ur, which is quite close to Abu Ghraib prison,actually. It`s believed to be the birth place of Abraham.Abraham, of course, is revered by Christians and Muslims and Jews alike.But in the year 2000, John Paul II made plans to visit. He said, he wouldbe the first pope ever to visit Iraq, visit Iraq`s beleaguered Christiancommunities and to visit Iraq`s holy sites.Saddam Hussein was the dictator in 2000, and ultimately, that trip did nothappen because Saddam Hussein said no, he blocked it. So that trip didn`thappen. Three years, of course, in 2003, the United States invaded Iraqwhich set off wave after wave of catastrophe and apocalyptic sectarianfighting.The beleaguered community of Iraqi Christians that had been about 1.5million strong before we invaded, it`s now down to somewhere between200,000 and 500,000, and it is not hard to understand why. In the lateryears of the Islamic State in Iraq, ISIS, they actually used Christianchurches in Iraq as firing ranges.In 2010, al Qaeda in Iraq launched an attack during mass at a church inBaghdad, a church called Our Lady of Salvation. They used grenades andbullets and suicide vests. They killed 58 people in the church in thatattack including two priests. There`s a memorial mural painted on the blastwalls showed all 58 people killed that day.There`s also a mural right next to that showing Francis, who is now, ofcourse, the Catholic pope. Well, today, Francis came to Iraq. His twopredecessors as pope had both tried to come to Iraq, had both tried to bethe first pope to ever visit Iraq. Neither of them was able to do it.Pope Francis has not travelled anywhere in the year because of thecoronavirus pandemic. His first trip anywhere was here, was here to Iraq.And today, he visited that church where dozens of Christians were massacredin 2010.Tomorrow, he will visit Ur, the birthplace of Abraham, where he will hostan interfaith meeting of Christians and Jews and Muslims, again, all ofwhom revere Abraham in equal measure. Pope Francis will meet with thesenior cleric of Shiite Islam in Iraq.Iraq is the first Shiite majority country he`s ever visited. Ayatollah Alial-Sistani is seen as a moderating force in Iraq. He`s the sort of chiefcleric of Shiite Islam in Iraq. He`s reclusive, doesn`t leave his home,does not meet visiting dignitaries no matter where they`re from except forthe pope. He is making an exception. They will meet tomorrow, which is animportant thing.Pope Francis will visit Mosul, which used to be a home, used to be home toa community of 50,000 Christians. Now, there`s only about 2,000 of themleft. He`ll perform an outdoor mass on Sunday in Irbil in northern Iraq,which, of course, has just been in the news recently, as it has beentargeted by multiple rocket attacks.But he`s there. He`s going to do an outdoor mass. He said, quote, I come asa penitent asking forgiveness of Heaven and my brothers and sisters for somuch destruction and cruelty.These two events in the news in the same day, they`re not connected allthat much, but they are a reminder, I think, to sort of stay ready, to beaware of the fact that things that seem impossible can one day just happen.I mean, impossibly difficult things sometimes untangle and it`s never easyor uncomplicated when it happens. These aren`t knots that get severed witha sword. They`re things that need to be untangled.I mean, the pope`s visit is complicated. Among other things by COVIDworries, right? Crowds are unavoidably turning out to see him, even as theyhave tried to plan things to keep people apart and away.The pope himself has been vaccinated. He wears a mask in public. He`simportantly said that refusing the vaccine if you can get it is wrong. He`sdescribed it as suicidal, which, of course, is a grave sin in the church.He`s promoted vaccines, promoted masks, promoted compassion for thoseliving with COVID.That said, Iraqis don`t have the choice to refuse the vaccine. There`s zerovaccine access in that country with not much hope for it on the horizon.It`s complicated.The accounting for Father Kapaun likewise is incredible. After 70 years, 70years since his death, it`s incredible. And it is also unconscionable thatit took 70 years to recover him.It`s never simple. And things that seem impossible seem that way becausethey are so hard to fix, because they are so hard to find a way through.But sometimes -- sometimes twice in a day, an impossible thing breaks open,becomes real, becomes fact, becomes today`s news.And for me in the news, days like that are an absolute cure for the millionstick in the mud nothing is going to better vote-a-rama days that come inbetween days like this.Sometimes the impossible really does just happen. Be ready.We`ll be right back.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Okay. This is something that I learned today that I just think thatyou should know too. I can`t quite believe it. I am assured that it istrue, but I want you to know about it. This might come in handy at yourlife in some point. So, just learn this right now and file it away.Every once in a while, in the TV news business, you have to go somewhererandom on no notice to go cover a story on the scene. And then after you`vedone that over the course of your day, you then have to produce a TV showthat night and the TV show may or may not include the story you were out inthe field working on. It may or may not be for that night`s show.It`s a fun thing. It could also be hectic or difficult. It also means youend up producing a show out of cobbled together random workspace thatwasn`t designed for what we do, that wasn`t designed for making TV shows.Luckily, our company has a whole bunch of really, really impressive peoplewho are devoted to making that happen, people who can MacGyver any space todo that job. And o of these MacGyver types is a magician incredibly capablefield IT guy named Dan -- Dan Peterson.And Dan just got married. And true to the spirit of every shoot I have everdone with him, this is the thing you need to know, he did it in a place Inever would have guessed you would do that thing. Dan got married at TacoBell in Las Vegas. This is Dan on the left and his now husband Jitu ontheir wedding day at a Taco Bell in Las Vegas, which is a thing you can do,file this information away.If it was anybody else, doing things in unexpected places is Dan`sspecialty. Mazel tov, you guys. Just in case you ever need to know this, ifyou need to get married and you need to go to Taco Cell, you can getmarried and go to Taco Bell. They`re a combination.That`s going to do it for us tonight. Happy Friday. I will see you again onMonday.Now it is time for "THE LAST WORD" where our friend Ali Velshi is in forLawrence tonight. Good night.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>