Summary:Georgia prosecutor investigating former President Trump hires aracketeering expert. Democratic voting rights attorney, Marc Elias filed alawsuit challenging the new law in Iowa, that points directly to the ironyof Iowa Republicans trying to fix an election system that even they say isnot broken.Transcript:REP. JAMES CLYBURN (D-SC): So that`s what I think we should do. I`m notsaying get rid of the filibuster.CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: Right.CLYBURN: If the president wants to keep the filibuster, fine. Let do itfor civil rights and voting rights.HAYES: Congressman Jim Clyburn, thank you so much for making time. Reallyappreciate it.That is ALL IN on this Tuesday night."THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thank you for being on myshow last night to talk --HAYES: Oh, it`s a delight. I enjoyed it.MADDOW: It was great. Yeah, you really are a very, very, very critical,strong thinker on policy in general but on COVID stuff in particularly. AndI feel like you are doing absolutely fantastic work right now, explaininghow these policy changes are going to impact people`s lives. And it`s just-- you`re firing on all cylinders, my friend.HAYES: Thank you very much. I really appreciate it.MADDOW: All right.Thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. Happy to have you here.So, tomorrow, Democrats in Washington are going to be wearing their Sundaybest. It is a really big landmark day for them at 9:00 a.m. They`re goingto start the home stretch final debate to pass the American Rescue Plan. Abig COVID relief bill that is the first thing the Biden administration andthe Democrats in Congress put their shoulders to when they got sworn injust two months ago.And you know, time will tell how this legislation is viewed over the longhaul. But just at face value, it is more wide-reaching progressivelegislation than anything passed -- anything passed at least the last twoDemocratic presidents. Legislatively in terms of its progressive reach, interms of its reach to make things better for people who need the most help.It is definitely on par with the Affordable Care Act, with Obamacare.But this bill, what the Senate passed this weekend, what the House willpass tomorrow, what President Biden is about to sign, will hit a widertarget than the Affordable Care Act ever aimed at. I mean, as huge anaccomplishment as that was to reform the absolutely baroque and broken U.S.health care system to try to improve it in a fundamental way, this bill isbigger. It is aiming at more. It will strike what is hoped to be a decisiveblow against the pandemic in terms of funding a coherent, technocraticallyskilled national response, funding everything from testing to the vaccinerollout. We are in the middle of the largest vaccine rollout in the historyof the country. This is how we`re going to fund it.It will cover all of that, plus basic research. Plus, the CDC getting itsact together on data and analytics and so much more. It will actuallyexpand the reach of Obamacare.So, for millions of Americans, this thing that`s going to pass tomorrow, itwill reduce your health insurance premiums. And actually for the people atthe lowest end of the spectrum, people with health insurance thanks to theAffordable Care Act, a lot of those folks are going to see their healthinsurance premiums go to zero because of this bill passing tomorrow.This bill radically increases access to health insurance in this country,particularly for the people who can least afford it. It is expected to cutchild poverty in half in this country through direct aid to families andthrough big sustained tax credits for families with kids. It`s expected toadd 7 million jobs to the economy. It`s going to direct $130 billion toU.S. schools.I mean, just take piece of it. Even if that`s all this piece was doing,especially after what schools have been through this past year, just thatschool funning alone, that $130 billion for schools alone would haveDemocrats putting on their best twin sets and shining up their shoestonight in anticipation of what they`re going to pass tomorrow. Just theschool funding alone is a really big deal.For everybody who has been waiting on the direct stimulus payment that willcome as part of this bill. If the house passes it tomorrow, and there isn`ta delay in getting it to the White House for the president`s signature,those direct $1,400 payments may start going out next being. People whohave direct deposits set up will see the money arrive first directly intheir bank accounts. People who are getting a check instead of directdeposit will get it soon there after.The White House explained that President Biden is not planning on puttinghis name anywhere on the check when the checks go out. And that, you know,probably shouldn`t be a surprise. It`s not his style really. It`s obviouslysort of a petty move for a president to do something like that.But honestly, as I get older, as I live through more and more years ofRepublican governance, I`m getting more and more petty all the time aboutstuff like this. Only because Republican presidents put their name oneverything. Democratic presidents are the ones who are all modest.If I was a Democratic president, I would put my name only check like a bighologram on it too. So it glowed when you open the envelope. Like agreeting card that plays a song when you open the envelope and would itsing my name. Bling at you, sing at you. I would do anything. I would putsequins on the thing.It would be all about remembering which party made this happen and whichparty all voted against it. But like I said, as I develop an increasinglysevere case of the O-L-D, I`m getting catier and pettier with each passingday and Biden is not doing that. It is why somebody like him is presidentand nobody asked my advice on these things.Get petty for once, OK? This is a big F-ing deal as someone once said.But tomorrow is going to be a really big day. And while Democrats preparefor that big, big day tomorrow, as President Biden plans his big prime timespeech on COVID on Thursday night, which should also be a big deal,Thursday will be the country, our country and every country, marking theone-year anniversary of the global declaration of the pandemic.As we head towards that on Thursday, as more Capitol rioters get arrestedevery day, including two in the last two days who spent the morning of theCapitol attack with former President Trump`s friend and political adviser,Roger Stone, of course, who Trump pardoned for multiple federal felonies tothe men he spent January 6th with, who have been arrested for their rolesin taking part in the Capitol attack.As one of the appointees of the State Department was today ordered by afederal judge to remain in custody awaiting trial because of what the judgedescribed in court today is that man`s leadership role in directing Capitolrioters in attacking Capitol police that day. As President Biden`s newattorney general, Merrick Garland, is finally, finally is slated to beconfirmed tomorrow, so the proverbial autopsy can finally begin as to whatthe Justice Department under Bill Barr. So someone can take the helm of thesprawling January 6th Capitol attack investigation and start once againinforming the public where things are going with that.With all of these things simultaneously underway, today and tonight andinto tomorrow, we are keeping our eyes on all those things. There`s been alot of developing news over the day and the evening. I`m not sure how theshow will go because we are expecting continuing breaking news throughoutthe hour.But even as we`re keeping an eye on that, there is something else that Iwant to direct your attention to, because to me, this is something that wasalready shocking at a lot of levels. But it has just veered off in a quiteunexpected direction. One that I thought was farfetched at first glancewhich I thought was not nearly as farfetched as I thought.All right. The year 2000, there was a sheriff`s election in DeKalb County,Georgia. DeKalb County is a really big county in Georgia. It includes a bigpart of the Atlanta metro area. On the east side, the county seat isDecatur, they elect their sheriffs there.And in 2000 in the sheriff`s election in DeKalb County, the incumbentsheriff was voted out to the relief of a lot of people. The incumbentsheriff who lost that election, his name is Sidney Dorsey. I say it was arelief when he got voted out because he was widely perceived to be verycorrupt. He was under investigation for a bunch of corruption allegationsat the time.Having his sheriff`s deputies do not only personal work for him and hisfamily but making his deputies moon height for his personal securitybusiness on the side. There were investigations into the contracts that hehad doled out for the gigantic DeKalb County jail that he ran, and whetherhe had corrupted those contracts, too.So he was a sheriff with a terrible reputation under investigation for alot of things. He was up for re-election if 2000 and he lost. He lost to aguy who specifically ran against him on anti-corruption platform. Hisopponent saying he would clean it up, fire deputies involved in thesealleged schemes of the existing sheriff. It was a close race in 2000 inDeKalb county but the incumbent guy lost to challenger one.And then after the election, before the new sheriff was sworn in, actuallythree days before the new sheriff was due to be sworn in, the new sheriff,the anti-corruption crusade here had won the election and ousted theincumbent sheriff, he was walking up the driveway of his house in DeKalbCounty. It was his wife`s birthday. He was carrying a dozen roses for herin the house. She heard him drive up. She knew he was home and she heardwhat sounded like fireworks in the driveway.When she went out to see what was happening, there was her husband layingin the driveway dead. He had been shot 12 times, murdered in an ambushattack three days before he was due to be sworn in to start his new job asthe elected sheriff of DeKalb county. And the sheriff who he had defeatedis the person who was indicted for arranging his murder.The outgoing sheriff who had been under investigation anyway for all thosecharges, he was hit with charges of felony murder, theft, violations ofoath, and racketeering. Racketeering, under Georgia state law.Ultimately, he was convicted and the sheriff got life without thepossibility of parole for the felony murder charge. But then on top ofthat, life without possibility of parole, there is nothing on top of thatreally but they added additional years on top of that. The violation ofoath charges and the racketeering charges of which he was also convictedput an extra 23 years on his sentence in addition to life without parole.Racketeering.Now, racketeering is something we associate with the mafia, right? Withprosecutions of impossible bosses and big ongoing highly structuredorganized crime outfits. That`s what we think of as racketeering.But in state law, in Georgia law, particularly, it is applied to a muchwider set of crimes than you might think. It is, I`m oversimplifying here alittle bit but it is basically applied to crimes where prosecutors thinkthey can prove a pattern of linked criminal acts. Not just one off offensesthat are not leading toward any particular aim.And I am oversimplifying that and I am not a lawyer. Do not cite me on yourdefense if you`re picked up on a RICO charge. But you can see the way theRICO charges are used in a place like Georgia, in the headlines, when thereare high profile cases, and those are charges brought. The murder of thenew sheriff by the corrupt outgoing sheriff, that he had defeated in theelection, that was prosecuted, as I said, both as a murder and also asracketeering, convictions on both fronts.The prosecutor who litigated the case, a man named John Floyd, defendedthat conviction of that Georgia sheriff, all the way to the Georgia SupremeCourt, including the racketeering charges, defended it all the way to thetop level in Georgia state law and the case stood up. And that disgracedsheriff and now convicted murderer Sidney Dorsey is still in prison forthat crime, convicted murderer, convicted racketeer.You see racketeering charges brought in Georgia in also the kinds of casesthat maybe seem more intuitive. There was a big set of arrests in Georgiain October. They called it operation caged doves, which seems a littlemelodramatic, but 46 people were arrested. And a huge big long string ofcharges brought against all of them.Between them, there were four charges of felony murder, four charges ofkidnapping, 24 charges of aggravated assault, three charges of herointrafficking, three charges of meth trafficking, three charges of varioustimes of financial fraud. But look up at the top, 92 charges ofracketeering. They rolled up this whole street gang.And charged them with lots of individual crimes and then charged all ofthem with violations of the RICO act, the Racketeer Influence and CorruptOrganizations Act. So, it is still, you should think of it as a mafiathing, something that is used against gangs but it is more than that.In December in Georgia, there were racketeering charges brought against abudge of officials, including a sheriff`s captain in what was alleged to bea sprawling, corrupt, illegal gambling ring, centered at convenience storesand mini marts in Georgia.In 2019, there was this tidy little thing. Racketeering charges broughtagainst three people in the town of White, Georgia. The police chief, hisson-in-law and his wife.Charges were brought against the police chief and his son-in-law who wasthe town`s only other police officer, and his wife who was also the townmanager. They were, the allegations were that they were basically involvedin a planned scheme to give people bogus citations, radically overchargethem for those citations, and then pocket the money. It helps to have thepatrol officer of the chief of police and the town manager all in a schemelike that. They were brought up on racketeering charges for that.Racketeering charges, it`s a pattern of criminal acts all leading toward acriminal purpose. And that charge is a really serious one in a state likeGeorgia. Like 20 years in prison serious. But that charge turns up in casesof all kinds, including lots of cases involving allegedly corrupt publicofficials.Perhaps the most surprising and most high profile case that they turned upin was one that you will remember. The Atlanta school`s cheating scandal.Do you remember this? This was national news, the top of the national news,when 11 educators were convicted in Georgia state court in that cheatingscandal in April 2015.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)ANNOUNCER: From NBC News world headquarters in New York, this is "NBCNightly News". Reporting tonight, Lester Holt.LESTER HOLT, NBC NEWS ANCHOR: Good evening. It`s bad enough when kidscheat in school to get ahead. But the teachers themselves, today, inAtlanta, nearly a dozen former educators were convicted on racketeering andother charges for their part in one of the nation`s biggest cheatingscandals. Prosecutors say it was a massive conspiracy to make sure studentspassed standardized tests, even if it meant giving kids the correctanswers.The scandal dates back a decade. It involved dozens of schools and a lot fgrown-ups who apparently failed one of the first lessons we were alltaught.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Nearly a dozen former educators convicted on racketeering andother charges. Racketeering charges there, too. They were not a gang.I mean, these are educators. Corrupt educators, as was proven in court. Butthis is 12 teachers and other educators put on trial. The sprawling case,accusing them of basically a systematic form of cheating on standardizedtests.One of the 12 teachers put on trial was acquitted. But 11 of the remaining12 were convicted -- convicted among other things on, racketeering charges,all of them, with that harsh penalty looming for all of them of up to 20years in prison.That trial in the Atlanta cheating scandal was the longest jury trial inthe history of the state of Georgia. And I`m not talking about the overallproceedings from the first arrest to the first court hearings to the trialto the sentencing and all the rest of it. I don`t mean how long the wholething took to be resolved. Just the trial itself. The day after day, in theactual courtroom fighting it out, the trial itself took six months. Thereis never been a longer trial in the state of Georgia with a dozendefendants there, incredibly complex, with this incredibly ambitiouscharge.The prosecutor who led the team, who got those convictions in the Atlantacheating scandal was at the time, an assistant D.A. named Fani Willis. Hereshe is, and some tape that we`ve got from that time. The elected D.A. is atthe microphone leading the press conference. But you see Fani Willis thereon the right side of your screen. She led the prosecution team on the rightside there.And interestingly, when they decided to pursue that case that way, whenthey pursued those charges against the teachers and principals andadministrators all caught up in this cheating scandal, the prosecution teamunder Fani Willis brought in a specialist, an expert, a special prosecutorspecifically to help them make the racketeering case, to make the case forthat specific, very serious felony charge and to see it through toconviction.That`s the man, the specialist who they brought in there, the guy on theleft. His name is John Floyd. Whose name I just said a moment ago becausethat`s the same John Floyd who obtained the conviction, the racketeeringconviction against the crooked sheriff Sidney Dorsey in that case whereDorsey murdered his would be successor after beat him in an election in theyear 2000. John Floyd is the one who got that conviction, including theracketeering conviction and then defended it to the Supreme Court, tacked20 plus years, tacked 20 years on to a sentence that was already lifewithout parole because of that racketeering conviction.Years later, Fani Willis was leading the teacher scandal in Atlanta, shewent to him. She brought in the state`s racketeering prosecution expert.She brought in John Floyd to get the racketeering convictions against theteachers. In case, too, and it worked.However unlikely it might have seemed to have those kinds of charges. Inkind of case, he did it and it stuck and it worked.And now not that many years later, Fani Willis is the elected districtattorney herself in the largest county in Georgia, in Fulton County. AndFani Willis has announced the opening of a criminal investigation intoefforts by former President Donald Trump and others to corrupt the resultsof the presidential election in Georgia.She said when she announced the opening of that investigation, thatracketeering was one of the crimes she was potentially investigating inquestion, efforts to corrupt the election results. And now, "Reuters" isfirst to report, and Willis` office has confirmed that Willis has gone backto the same guy. She`s gone back to John Floyd who has had a hand in thehighest profile and most unlikely seeming RICO prosecutions in recentGeorgia law.John Floyd who has since gone on to successfully prosecute RICO cases understate law. This is his book. He literally wrote the book how to prosecuteRICO cases. "RICO State by State: A Guide to Litigation Under the StateRacketeering Statutes," that`s his book. He literally wrote the book on howto prosecute and get convictions on state racketeering laws."Reuters" reporting that Fani Willis has, quote, enlisted the help ofAtlanta lawyer John Floyd to provide help as needed on matters involvingracketeering, including the Trump investigating.The dean of Mercer University law school in Macon, Georgia, says about thishigher quote, it`s not a stretch to see where Fani Willis is taking this.If President Trump engaged in two or more acts that involved falsestatements that were made knowingly and willfully in an attempt to falsifymaterial fact like the election results, then you can piece together aviolation of the Racketeering Act. It is a felony and it can carrypenalties up to 20 years in prison. The dean says: There are not a lot ofpeople who avoid prison time on a racketeering offense.It is honestly a shocking thing that the immediate former president of theUnited States is facing multiple live criminal investigations. By New Yorkstate prosecutors, by Georgia state prosecutors.CNN and "The Wall Street Journal" and other news organizations haverecently reported even more Trump properties and developments and financialentanglement that`s have been subpoenaed as part of a New York prosecution.The New York investigation has itself brought on and experienced mobprosecutor as a special prosecutor to help them with their work this.But if Georgia is looking at a potential racketeering case against theformer president, now with the help of a specialist prosecutor who doesthis for a living, who has already successfully brought super high profileracketeering prosecutions in that state and earned convictions on thosecharges, this just feels like a different level of the sort of drama andrisk stratosphere here. So, a lot going on in the news right now. This ismind-blowing though.Joining us now is David Cooke. David Cooke is the former district attorneyfor the Macon Judicial Circuit in Georgia. Mr. Cooke has known Fani Willis,the Fulton County district attorney for decades. He`s also known JohnFloyd, the attorney who will help in her investigation of Donald Trump as aspecial prosecutor on racketeering matters.Mr. Cooke, I really appreciate you making time to be here tonight. Thankyou.K. DAVID COOKE, JR., FORMER DISTRICT ATTORNEY, MACON, GEORGIA JUDICIALCIRCUIT: Thank you for having me.MADDOW: So, I am not a lawyer. I`m not an expert in famous Georgia publiccorruption cases. So I want to give you a chance, if I explained any ofthat wrong or if I blurred something that should be sharply defined there.I just want to give you a chance to tell me I`m wrong.COOKE: No, you pretty much hit the nail on the head, especially when itcomes to John Floyd. You know, having John Floyd on your team in aracketeering case is kind of like having the teacher write your termpayment or having the author of the book, having the author of the textbookhelp you study for the test. You know your racketeering case will be doneright if you have him on the team.MADDOW: Should we see it as a sign that D.A. Willis is going to pursueracketeering charges that she has brought on John Floyd? Or will Mr. Floydbe brought at this point in the process to assess whether or not that`s arealistic process -- a realistic prospect?COOKE: So based on the letters that I`ve looked at, that she sent to thegovernor and other public officials that you`ve referenced before, I thinkshe`s already seen the signs. Because of that, she`s brought in AttorneyFloyd to help her make sure everything is done right. To make sure every"I" is dotted and every "T" is crossed.Also, knowing D.A. Willis as long as I`ve known her, she is used to beingthe starting quarterback. She`s used to being part of a top team. Soknowing her, I think this is part of her larger effort of making an all-star team for the office, and if needed for this case, as it isinvestigated.MADDOW: When you say an all-star team, do you mean that she is pullingtogether the sort of best in class prosecutors and advisers in terms ofdoing this work?Obviously, being an elected D.A., it is a very high profile position. Shehas taken this on. It has a huge national spotlight on her. We`ve beentalking many detail about Mr. Floyd being brought on on the racketeeringmatters.From what else you know about how she`s working this case, who else she`sbrought into her office, do you feel like she`s assembling a formidableteam for Georgia, of Georgia lawyers?COOKE: I know she is. In fact, another sign of that is that she just hiredMike Carlson to be one of her top assistants. Mike Carlson is the author,along with his father, of the definitive book on Georgia evidence. Youknow, he gets to make the best argument of any lawyer I know which isjudge, as I said in my book, have been, and you know, every judge inGeorgia has that book sitting on their bench because it is the definitiveguide to Georgia evidence.But Mike is not only a scholar and noted for his appellate ability. He isalso that rare academic, also a street fighter in the courtroom. So it isevident to me that D.A. Willis is putting together the best team possiblejust seeing those two hires and the movement that`s I`ve heard that she`smaking and putting her office together.MADDOW: What do you think we the public should expect in terms of publicfacing actions? We know from the other public officials in Georgia that sheintended to take this matter before a Fulton County grand jury and ask forsubpoenas to documents and witnesses. We know from public reporting that Ithink two different grand juries were convened in Fulton County last week.We therefore suspect she may be bringing grand juries as well to getsubpoenas for witnesses and documents.But the grand jury process is secret. Is this something that you think wewon`t see any public signs of for months? Or do you think there are thingsthat we should look for in order to keep track of what`s happening here?COOKE: I don`t think we will know exactly what is happening until thearrests are made or the indictments are handed down, if any. Knowing Fanithe way I know her, I think D.A. Willis is in addition to putting togetherthe best team possible, she is going to follow the evidence wherever itleads and make sure every best practice is followed. So this case, if acase come together, it will be tight. It will be done as well as any D.A.could possibly make it.And it will be obvious that it is based on the facts and the law and not onpersonality or any other factors.MADDOW: David Cook, former Macon, Georgia district attorney -- somebodyhas personal connections to a lot of the people involved. Thank you forhelping us understand this.As we do get further, any sort of public signs about what`s happening,within the office or within this case, I hope you know that I`ll call youback to help explain it to us.COOKE: Thank you so much. I would be honored.MADDOW: All right. Much more to get to tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Right after the great state of Iowa held its primary electionslast summer, this is what the secretary of state in Iowa sent out when theresults came in. Good job! Good job, everybody! Well done. Literally,fireworks. Good job!And it was well done. It was a good job. Iowa broke all turnout records fora June primary. There were no problems. Everything worked. All systems go,broke the record.The way that Iowa broke that turnout record for the primary is that theysent everybody an application for an absentee ballot so everybody couldeasily vote absentee, vote by mail if that`s what they wanted to do. That`sit. That`s what they did. That was the big change.Worked like a charm. There was no drama, no scandal, no problems, andrecord turnout. That election was on a Tuesday, of course. And I kid younot. Before that week was out, Republicans in the state legislature hadalready drafted a bill to stop the state from ever doing that again.Why? Because it made it easy and safe for people to vote and people likedvoting that way and they did vote that way in very large numbers withoutany problems. And so, Republicans apparently believed, it must be stopped.Despite Iowa Republicans` efforts, the secretary of state, the guy who hadbeen so proud of Iowa voters for breaking those turnout records, he didmanage to send out absentee ballot applications to everyone in the stateagain for the general election in November. And guess what? Iowa votersliked that. And they broke turnout records again, another wildly successfulelection for Iowa.Over three quarters of registered voters in the state cast a ballot in theNovember election which is huge. Well over half of those voters votedearly. It was smooth and no hick-ups. No problems. So it must be stops.Iowa`s successful display of robust, easy, participatory democracy appearsto have driven the Republican Party batty. They have decided that had toomany Iowans voted last year and they won`t let it happen again. Iowa`sRepublican governor has now signed a law which bans the secretary of stateor anyone else from mailing out to everyone these applications for absenteeballots. That`s what made it so easy for people to vote by mail.If do you vote by absentee ballot in Iowa, your ballot will no longer becounted unless it is received by the time polls close on Election Day. Evenif it is not your fault, it is the postal service`s fault that it got therelate.And polls will close an hour earlier for same day election day voting inIowa. Why did they shave an hour off the time people are allowed to vote onElection Day? No idea.The law also cuts over a week off the early voting period, when more thanhalf the votes were cast in the last election. Their cutting nine days offthe early voting period. Why?If any local elections official takes any steps to make voting easier in acounty, that election official can be charged with a felony.This is really what Republicans are doing. They really did look at the mostsuccessful highest turnout in Iowa`s history that had no problems and theysaid to. They, how can we make sure that never happens again?While Iowa may be first across the finish line here in terms of getting avoter suppression law actually passed out of the legislature and signedinto law by the governor, there is a very big line of Republicanlegislatures.In Georgia, they have passed no fewer than a dozen different votersuppression bills would limit absentee voting, early voting, more voter IDrequirements, specifically limit Sunday early voting when black churcheslike to bring souls to the polls events right from church to pollingplaces.In Arizona, Republicans in the state legislature are batting around allkinds of head spindling ideas, from giving themselves, giving thelegislature itself, the power to overturn any election results it does notlike, to tossing out any absentee ballots that aren`t post marked by theThursday before the Election Day? Even if the ballot arrives before pollsclose? Really?Republicans are working hard on this in state after state after state.They`re doing everything they can to make it as hard as possible to vote.As I said, Iowa is the first over the finish line on this. The new Iowaanti-voting rights law is officially on the books, including the threat tolocal elections officials that if they do anything to make it easier tovote, they`re going to prison.And pretty much as soon as Iowa`s governor finished signing that, one ofthe country`s most celebrated, relentless and successful voting rightslitigators filed suit to stop it. Marc Elias successfully litigated dozensof bogus Republican challenges to the 2020 elections, and Republicanefforts to make it hard to vote in those, too. Can he stop this new wave ofvoter suppression laws? Or does he have other ideas about how they can bestopped besides in court?Marc Elias joins us next.Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: In 2020, Iowa saw its highest turnout for any election despite thepandemic. There is been any credible allegations of voter fraud from theIowa election, or even really non-credible ones. There`s never been anymajor allegations of fraud, even made up bogus ones. I mean, Trump won Iowain 2020. So did beleaguered Senator Joni Ernst.Because Republicans won in Iowa in 2020, that is presumably why they neverhad to endure one of those weird Rudy Giuliani sideshow press conferencesand hearings that happened in all the swing states that Trump lost.Nevertheless, despite the record turnout and no claims of fraud, IowaRepublicans have made it their mission to enact a new sweeping bill torestrict voting rights. And the Iowa Republican governor just signed itinto law last night.Today, Democratic voting rights attorney Marc Elias filed a lawsuitchallenging the new law in Iowa. That filing today points directly to theirony of Iowa Republicans trying to fix an election system that even theysay is not broken. This is actually really good.Listen. It says, quote: The bill sponsors do not deny that Iowa`s electionsare secure. Instead they`ve said additional measures are necessary toreassure Iowans who turn out in record numbers in 2020 that this is thecase.But to the extent any Iowans are concerned about the security of thestate`s election, it is the result of efforts to plant and sow baselessmistrust. Not because there`s any evidence that the integrity of thestate`s elections are legitimately in doubt.Joining us now is Marc Elias, Democratic voting rights attorney. He`s thefounder of Democracy Docket. He brought this case against Iowa`s electionlaw.Mr. Elias, it is nice to see you. Thank you for making time.MARC ELIAS, DEMOCRATIC VOTING RIGHTS ATTO RNEY: Great to see you again.MADDOW: Let me just ask you first if I`ve screwed any of this up in thetelling or if it is the lay of the land with the challenge that you filedand with the new law.ELIAS: As usual, you`re exactly right. The Republicans have gone out insearch, finding a problem that doesn`t exist. They`ve passed a suppressionlaw that no matter what else, they call it a suppression law.MADDOW: Have you received any response from the state since filing thislawsuit? What should we anticipate in terms of Republican facing back andforth now that you`ve joined this fight with them?ELIAS: Yeah. We haven`t heard anything back from the state yet. At somepoint, I assume they will respond to the lawsuit. And then we`ll go fromthere.The fact is, that Iowa had good clean elections this November as they havein the past: and without any reason other than to make voting harder, Iowamade voting harder. And that`s the bottom line. In doing that, they havedisadvantaged our clients and they have disadvantaged the voters of Iowa.MADDOW: Marc, one of the reasons I wanted to talk with you tonight isbecause I feel like you have been impassioned in the last few weeks aboutthe real threat, the severity of the threat coming from all of theseRepublican controlled states that are passing one after -- at least moving,one after another after another after another, bills to make voting harder.And I know this is a fight that you have committed yourself to for yourwhole career and this is something in which you`ve had a lot of success.But I feel like I`m reading in your public facing statements, real alarmabout the amount of damage that can be done to the democracy right now byall the states pursuing all the different paths.ELIAS: Rachel, it`s just different this time. This is not to say thatthere are not other problems in the world. I recognize that there are otherstories that have to be covered.But I am begging America and the media to pay attention to this. Right now,we are facing an avalanche of voter suppression that we have not seenbefore. At least not since Jim Crow, in state after state. It`s not justIowa, it`s not just Georgia, it`s also Montana, it`s also Missouri, it`salso Florida, it`s also Texas. The list goes on and on.Donald Trump told a big lie that has led to, that led to an assault ondemocracy in the Capitol on January 6th. The assaults we`re seeing going onnow in state capitals with the legislatures may be less deadly and lessviolent but they`re every bit as damaging to our democracy.MADDOW: If this is a national avalanche of voter suppression as youdescribe it, is there a national response warranted from people who want tofight against this voter suppression? Obviously, you`re taking this on atthe granular level. When Kim Reynolds in Iowa signed this bill, that becamethe first of the voter suppression laws signed into law despite all theones that are moving in other states, you were Johnny on the spot filinginstantly against it.You are fighting granularly. You are fighting on those front lines. Whatcan happen nationally, or what can happen at the state level by non-lawyers, by citizens who care about these things?ELIAS: Yeah. So two things, first at the federal level, we need H.R. 1,and we need the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act, the John Lewisbill. We need them and we need them soon.At the state level, what people can do is they can stand up. They can telltheir neighbors and their friends that this is not okay. They can`t avoidthe hard conversation when their crazy uncle says something crazy. They canconfront it. They can go to town halls and confront their local and statelegislatures.Now is the time to stand up in public and be heard in the town square andsay we demand our democracy be protected.MADDOW: You say that we need H.R. 1. That we need the voting rights, therestoration and advancement of voting rights represented by that bill andby the John Lewis bill. The reason that there is cynicism that those willever become law, evil as H.R. 1 has passed the House, is because of theexistence of the filibuster in the Senate and the resistance of somesenators to get rid of the filibuster, even if they were only to sort oftailor the filibuster so it couldn`t be used to block voting rightslegislation. It couldn`t be used to block civil rights legislation, forexample.I wonder if there is something that you would say to an Arizona senator,Kyrsten Sinema, for example, in terms of the stakes in Arizona, and howthat passing H.R. 1 by hook or by crook might save the country.ELIAS: Here`s what I say. There is a line from a Supreme Court decision ofseveral decades ago that said the First Amendment is not a suicide pact.Neither are the Senate rules.The Senate rules are there to allow for minority participation and debate.It is not a suicide pact by which democracy gets destroyed.So, I don`t know the right mechanism. But one way or another we need tohave Congress vote on H.R. 1 and the John Lewis bill because whatever elseis at stake, without a functioning democracy, we won`t have anything else.MADDOW: Marc Elias, Democratic voting rights attorney, the founder ofDemocracy Docket -- Marc, keep us apprised on this Iowa case and on thestory in general. We won`t let go, but we would love to keep talking to youabout it.ELIAS: Thank you very much, Rachel.MADDOW: All right. One quick programming note on this line, speaking ofvoting rights, tomorrow night we`ll be joined exclusively here live byStacey Abrams, former Democratic leader in Georgia, former gubernatorialcandidate in Georgia, and national voting rights leader. Stacey Abrams havebeen warning specifically about Georgian Republican attempts to crushvoting rights for years.Now that they are moving ahead with what is described as the mostaggressive voting rights roll back since Jim Crow, she is going to be ourexclusive guest here tomorrow night.Have more ahead tonight as well. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: So this is interesting. I did not know this was coming. The FBItoday released more video. Fairly high resolution video of the suspect theysay left two pipe bombs near the Capitol on January 6th. One near theRepublican national headquarters, one near the Democratic nationalheadquarters on the eve of the attack on the Capitol, the night of January5th.The FBI has been able to get very specific about the clothing the suspectedbomber was wearing. They know the exact shoes the person had on, the exacttime the person unzipped their backpack to place the bombs.But they still do not know who the person is. And so, the FBI is askingpeople to watch the new video they just released, hoping it might jogsomebody`s memory, hoping that somebody might be able to ID this person bytheir body language, their mannerisms, the pieces of clothes you mightrecognize.They are offering a $100,000 reward to anybody who provides informationthat leads to this suspect being identified.Now, it has been more than 60 days now that this person has been at large.This person who had the means and knowledge to make operative pipe bombs,and who placed them at political targets. It has more than 60 days thisperson has been at large.And all this time later, that is especially all we know about the status ofthe investigation into the mad pipe bomber in the Capitol attack who isstill out there. Federal investigators and prosecutors handling theinvestigations have been radio silent for weeks. Honestly, I don`t know whythis is but the FBI and the D.C. U.S. attorney`s office they have notbriefed the public on the subject since the week of the inauguration.Why is that?Among other things, that means we still have open questions about why theperson who placed the pipe bombs is still at large, but also about how theoverall prosecution of these case is being handled. There`s a lot ofinteresting questions, hard questions that I think need to be asked aboutthe number of people the FBI asked information about, who the FBI hassuggested of people who`ve been involved in serious crimes that haveresulted in public tips, back to the FBI, and journalism flushing out thetips, finding these people, and explaining them, in some cases,broadcasting or recording confessions from these people.But those things haven`t resulted in any law enforcement activity to thosepersons. Questions need to be asked about those things.We also don`t know whether the overall investigation has been hampered orslowed down by the fact that new leadership hasn`t been taken over at theDepartment of Justice. There is still a holding pattern.The last point, at least, we may get clarity. President Biden`s nominee tolead the Justice Department, Attorney General designate Merrick Garland isscheduled to have this final confirmation vote in the Senate tomorrow. Onthe day that he is sworn in, Merrick Garland will take ownership of all ofthese open cases and active investigations in to what happened on January6th and everything else.And maybe that will mean a new strategy. We`ll see. We hope it will meanmore public facing information about the status of the on goinginvestigations. Because the refusal to talk to the public is not good, andso far that is happening during the Biden administration, and maybe it`sbecause Merrick Garland isn`t there, but once he`s there, no more excuses.More ahead. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: So, tomorrow really is going to be a huge day. Nine a.m. Easterntomorrow, the House will gavel in for the final debate on the Bidenadministration`s big COVID relief bill, the American Rescue Plan. We haveno reason to believe there will be drama there. Democratic leadership saysthey have the votes. Biden has he will sign it. It looks cooked but we`llsee.At least at face value, this thing is going to happen tomorrow, more widereaching and progressive than anything passed by at least the last twoDemocratic presidents.We`re going to have full coverage of that tomorrow, plus, Stacey Abramswith us here live tomorrow night. I will see you then.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>