Summary:Texas Republican Governor Greg Abbott ended the state`s mask mandateand boasted that Texas is now 100 percent no restrictions to protect peoplefrom the coronavirus. Republicans in the Senate have decided that not onlyare they opposed to the COVID relief bill, they`re going to do everythingwithin their power to stretch it out as long as possible and delay COVIDrelief as long as they can. Interview with Senator Chris Murphy ofConnecticut.Transcript:JANAI NELSON, NAACP LEGAL DEFENSE FUND ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR-COUNSEL: Expectthat states would in all likelihood adopt many of these democracy expandingmeasures because they`re good, because they`re good for our democracy, andthey`re healthy, and they invite a more inclusive electorate, and that isexactly what this federal legislation is pushing for and what we hopestates will eventually come around to accepting and embracing.But federal -- it has no violation of state rights, and it is criticallyconstitutional given the broad congressional authority that exists in theConstitution to regulate federal elections.CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST, "ALL IN": Janai Nelson, Nse Ufot, thank you both.That is "ALL IN" on this Thursday night.THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Much appreciated, myfriend.And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. Happy to have you here.Now, by rules of the court, we`re not allowed to record what happens, letalone broadcast a recording of it on TV. Federal courts don`t allow camerasin the courtroom.Now, reporters and members of the public are allowed to be there themselvesin person to watch or cover for the press most court proceedings, butthat`s it. All right? You can sit in the courtroom and take notes andreport on what you saw and what you heard while you were there, but nocameras.No still cameras. No video cameras. No tape recording of the courtproceedings.And that`s been true forever in federal courts. I mean, you have to allowreporters in and members of the public in because it`s a key value in ourconstitutional system that the administration of justice is -- it`s apublic thing. It`s open to the public.It`s transparent. We can see what court proceedings are like. We can seewhat federal trials are like, so most proceedings let the public in, letreporters in to watch, but no cameras.And some state guards do let cameras in, and it`s a controversial thingthey don`t do it in the federal system. But in the federal courts, federaljudges have decided against it. I think the basic idea is they don`t wantthe sensationalism of having federal trials play out on live TV or play outon the news.They don`t want people involved in federal court proceedings playing to thecamera for a fact, knowing it`s going to be broadcast on TV later.All this to say, I cannot play you the tape. I cannot play you a recordingof what happened, but many court proceedings are held by Zoom these daysjust like everything else because of the pandemic, and so today, a lot ofreporters were listening in at this particular federal court proceedproceeding over Zoom, and no, I cannot play you the tape of the screamingand yelling at this court hearing, but I can tell you with confidence therewas definitely screaming and yelling.Now, we just got the transcript tonight because reporters were able tolisten in while this thing happened live, we know the tone in which thewords in the transcript were uttered. "The Washington Post" and the "NewYork Times" simply called it a, quote, tantrum. "USA Today" described thedefendant in this case as, quote, erupting. "The Daily Beast" described himas, quote, losing it in court.And I`m not a good actor, so I`m not sure how much emotion I can accuratelyconvey here, but here it is.The judge: Mr. Barnett, are you with us? You may be muted Mr. Barnett. Wemay have lost Mr. Barnett who is obviously the reason we`re all here thismorning. Pause.The courtroom deputy: Mr. Barnett?The defendant, Mr. Barnett: yes.The judge: Ah, thank you for joining us again. Good morning, Mr. Barnett.This is Judge Cooper. Can you hear me?The defendant: Good morning. Yes, I can hear you.The judge: Okay, just like last time we would obviously usually do this inperson, but due to the pandemic we are proceeding remotely. Are you okaywith proceeding via telephone this morning?The defendant: Yes, that`s fine.The judge: Okay. Very well. If you could mute your phone now, unless weneed to hear from you, that would be very helpful.The defendant: Okay, I`ll mute now.The judge: Thank you, sir.Then the judge turns to the prosecutors. He says: All right, Ms. Dohrmannor Ms. McClain, where are we?One of the prosecutors, Nicole McClain, says: Yes, your honor.So at this time I believe there`s going to be a change in counsel in thiscase, which means the defendant is actually changing his defense lawyers,and they`re in the middle of that process happening.Prosecutor says: I had sent over to the defense lawyer a proposedprotective order for this case for discovery that he was going to sharewith his client and speak to his client about. We`ve provided somediscovery informally in this case, specifically through the U.S. attorney`soffice in Arkansas. The government is still undertaking this massive effortto gather discovery in this and all of the Capitol riot cases. What thegovernment is going to ask for today is for a continuance of 60 days togather discovery, to discuss the protective order, and for the newattorneys in the case to get up to speed on what has been done.The judge: And the last time we were here, no plea offer had been extended.Is that still the case?The prosecutor: That is still the case, your honor, and that is still thecase in all January 6th cases -- meaning no January 6th arrestees have beenoffered a plea deal by the government.The judge says: Okay, just out of curiosity, what is the government`sestimates of the guidelines range for the dangerous weapons charge here.Have you done that calculation?There`s then some discussion between the judge and the prosecutors on howmuch time in prison the defendant might ultimately be looking at if he`sconvicted on the dangerous weapons charge he is facing. That resolves likethis.The prosecutor: For the 1512, it`s going to be the highest offense levelhere. I believe it`s going to be a base offense level of 14, the maximumsentence on the 1512 is a 20-year term of imprisonment and a $250,000 fine.The judge: Okay, all right, just trying to figure out what we`ve got.Then he turns to defense counsel. Counsel, May 4th at 11:00 a.m., does thatwork for you?Defense lawyer: One moment your honor. Yes, that works for me. Yes.And then up pops the defendant. He unmutes himself.Defendant: I`m sorry, I need a side bar with my counsel. That doesn`t workfor me. I need a side bar.A different defense lawyer stands up. Richard, this is Steven Metcalf.The defendant: I need a side bar. I need a side bar.Defense lawyer Steven Metcalf: Listen, Richard, this that we`re talkingabout now, this is a date wholly separate from any application for bail foryou, so just hang tight. We`re going to hash out everything we need to withthe court right now. There are a couple of other issues that we need toaddress and we`re going to speak to you when we give you a call back. Didyou hear me?The defendant: Yes, I understand, but I`ve been here for a long time. I`vebeen here a month, and they`re going to set it for another month, andeverybody else is getting out.Defense lawyer: Richard --The judge: Okay.Defense lawyer: I`m asking you to just hang tight. We`re going to address acouple of other matters.The defendant: I don`t agree with this date. It`s not fair.First defense lawyer: So, Mr. Barnett --The judge: All right, counsel, let me cut this short, okay?The defendant: I`m on the phone. I can`t have a side bar with my attorney.It`s not fair.The judge: Counsel, why don`t we take five. The defendant, we need to startdoing this in person.Remember, the defendant just consented to doing this not in person when thejudge asked him directly at the start of the hearing, but now he says weneed to start doing this in person.The judge: Mr. Barnett, hold on, sir. We`re going to take five. And one ofyou, meaning one of the defense lawyers, you can step into another room andcontact Mr. Barnett. Is that possible?The defendant: It is possible. We`ve done it before.The judge: Hold on, sir, hold on. Here`s what we`re going to do. The courtwill set a date for a further status hearing on May 4th at 11:00 a.m.The defendant: Oh, no, sir.The judge: In the meantime, sir, if your counsel --The defendant: I have a phone number right here. He can call me. He`s donethis before. I`ve got a phone number right here he can call me on.The defense lawyer: Judge, I`ll take the number.The judge: All right, take the number, speak to your client and we`llreconvene in five minutes.The defendant: The government keeps dragging this out and letting everybodyelse out.Defense lawyer: Richard -- Richard, meaning the defendant -- Richard, I`madvising you to just stop.The judge: Counsel, step out and call your client.The court goes into recess.Now, it is not reflected in the official transcript that we have obtained,but one reporter who is monitoring the hearing today for `The Daily Beast"swears that at that point in the proceeding as they`re going to recess, thedefendant also screamed forgive me, quote, this has been a bunch of crap.The defendant in question here is this fellow who you`ll recognize from theimmediate aftermath of the January 6th attack. This is the guy who muggedfor the camera with his feet up on the desk in Nancy Pelosi`s office whooutside the Capitol bragged to reporters about what he had stolen fromPelosi`s office.After the attack after which he walked free and went back home, local lawenforcement in Arkansas declined to go arrest him. They just got in touchwith him and gave him time to come turn himself in on his own schedule.When FBI agents arrived at his home in Arkansas with a search warrant, hetold them that he had moved all of his guns out of the house and that theywouldn`t find anything in his house to incriminate him because he told theofficers, quote, I`m a smart man. You ain`t going to find nothing outthere, I assure you. I`m a smart man.Among the things officers did find at his house was the empty packaging forthe 950,000 volt cattle prod style stun gun that he allegedly wore into theCapitol. Oh, I guess that is something that they might find there.The FBI affidavit in his case points out that in some of the photos of himreveling in Nancy Pelosi`s office, you can actually see the top of that950,000 volt stun gun there on his left hip tucked into his belt.I`m a smart man. You won`t find nothing.His name is Richard Barnett. He has been in custody awaiting trial. He`sbeen charged with seven different crimes in federal court. Now he is in theprocess of getting himself new lawyers. He apparently didn`t like the oldones.As I said he`s been charged with seven different crimes including a weaponscharge that we learned in court today could put him in federal prison forup to 20 years. We also learned in federal court today from his tantrumthat he is absolutely convinced that he shouldn`t be in jail anymore rightnow while he awaits trial. He says it is not fair. He thinks he should belet out.After the judge called this five-minute recess today, so he could try toget ahold of himself, his lawyers came back into the proceedings with thejudge and calmly agreed to the next date that the judge had proposed in hiscase, the next status hearing in his case. The lawyers will file something,in the meantime to try to get him out of jail while he`s awaiting trial.That`s actually a separately adjudicated matter.But as of now, he is very upset about his one month or so he`s been infederal custody awaiting trial. He`s potentially facing 20 years in prison.He`s very, very upset, uncontrollably upset today that he`s been in jaileven this long.Tonight, CNN`s Evan Perez reports that federal investigators are, quote,examining records of communications between members of Congress and thepro-Trump mob that attacked the U.S. Capitol as the investigation movescloser to exploring whether lawmakers wittingly or unwittingly helped theinsurrectionists. The data gathered so far includes indications of contactwith lawmakers meaning contact between the rioters and lawmakers in thedays around January 6th. It seems like what investigators may maybe have sofar is metadata, meaning records that show calls and maybe texts betweenmembers of Congress and the rioters.Metadata showing that it happened at such and such a time on such and sucha date, potentially even where the phones were located when thosecommunications happened on or around January 6th. As to the content ofthose call and texts, though, sounds like investigators aren`t looking atthe context of those communications yet.Quoting Evan Perez tonight, quote: Should investigators find proposalcause, that lawmakers or their staff aided insurrectionists they could seekwarrants to obtain the content of the communications. Quote: So far,investigators haven`t found evidence that members of Congress knowinglyaided or were involved in the insurrection but the FBI has seized devicesbelonging to alleged rioters and has found communications that showconnections that investigators plan to further examine.That new reporting from CNN tonight, it hasn`t been confirmed by NBC News,but if federal prosecutors are looking at direct communications betweenmembers of Congress and the rioters around January 6th, that dovetails alittle bit with what we learned from Ohio Congressman Tim Ryan last week.Congressman Ryan has been really directly involved in the January 6thinvestigations in part because he heads-up the part of the house thatoversees the Capitol Police so he has very close working relationship withthe Capitol Police, and he told us here last week that federalinvestigators are also now reviewing footage, meaning videotape footage ofCapitol tours that were given by some members of Congress or their staffthe day before the Capitol attack.Some members of Congress have come forward and say they believe theircolleagues in the House, other members of Congress may have invited intothe Capitol the day before the attack people who were part of the mob thefollowing day on January 6th. Congressman Ryan told us that footage ofthose weird Capitol tours has been handed over to the U.S. attorney`soffice in D.C. so federal prosecutors can review that footage to see if, infact, those might have essentially been reconnaissance missions facilitatedby sympathetic members of Congress to help the rioters basically case thejoint and get their bearings inside the Capitol before they attacked it andtried to ransack the place the following days.There are reportedly more than two dozen federal prosecutors now who havebeen assigned to the complex task of putting together potentialprosecutions for planning and aiding and abetting the attack, including thequestion of, quote, whether political figures including law lawmakers andstaff aided the attackers.Today, because of warnings from the FBI and the Department of HomelandSecurity and other law enforcement sources, warnings that pro-Trump forcesmight, again, try some sort of follow on attack on the Capitol, today, theHouse was not in session out of an abundance of caution.On their schedule they had two bills they wanted to pass yesterday andtoday. The For the People democracy reform bill, which we`ll talk a littlebit more about later, and the George Floyd justice in policing policereform bill. They had planned to do those over two days, yesterday andtoday. They changed their schedule because of the threat. They ended upjust staying late last night and passing them both so they didn`t have tobe at the Capitol today just in case.And everything ended up being peaceful in Washington today as far asanybody can tell. And so, of course, they`re getting criticized foroverreacting to the threat and these warnings from law enforcement and theFBI. But, you know, given what happened last time and given, you know, thestun gun guy throwing the tantrum over still being in custody today, youknow, he was sort of right about one thing. Of the 300-plus people arrestedthus far for their part in the pro-Trump violent mob attack on the Capitol,most of those 300-plus people have been released on their own recognizanceto await trial from home.Most of those people are at liberty rite now, even some of the peopleaccused of and charged with some of the most violent and intimidating actshave been let out by judges who have decided they don`t need to stay incustody until their trial date comes around.So, you know, maybe the House is still a little skittish given what theywent through less than two months ago. When an operative pipe bomb wasfound outside an Iowa voting site on Tuesday this week, that was unnervingenough on its own. It was a community center at a small city in Iowa justoutside Des Moines, voting was going on at that site on Tuesday on a localmeasure about a school board spending capital improvement funds like anincredibly noncontroversial very local measure, and somebody tried to bomba voting site where that was what people were turning out to vote for?That was unnerving enough on its own in Ankeny, Iowa, this week on Tuesday.But it was also a reminder that whoever placed the two real operabledangerous pipe bombs at D.C. at the headquarters of the Democratic andRepublican parties, that bomber has still not been caught from January 6th,despite a six-figure reward from the FBI for information leading to thearrest of that person, despite pretty clear surveillance video of thatperson right around the time the person was planting the bombs. The bomberin conjunction with the January 6th attack is still at large.So we`re not yet two months out from the attack. The House was closed todayout of an abundance of caution after warnings about a potential follow-onattack from Trump supporters, an attack that didn`t in the end arise. TheSenate, though, stayed in session today, and, actually, it looks likethey`re maybe going to be there deep into the night and into the wee hours.This is a live shot of the Senate floor right now.Republicans in the Senate have decided that not only are they opposed tothe COVID relief bill, they`re going to do everything within their power tostretch it out as long as possible and delay COVID relief as long as theycan. A Republican Senate objection today resulted in the Senate clerksbeing forced to read out loud every word of the 600 plus page COVID reliefbill.Republicans in the House tried a stunt like this after President Obama waselected in 2009. You might remember that the Democrats in the House backthen responded by hiring a speed reader basically to troll the Republicansright back.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The rules require that the amendment be read, the clerkwill read the bill.UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In lieu of the matter being proposed to be inserted bythe amendment offered by blank, insert the following, section one, short --shorten that list, (INAUDIBLE) may be cited as the Energy Production andInnovation and Conservation Act, table of content. Table of contents forthe act is as follows: Section 1, short title and table of contents. Title1, clean energy standards. Section 11, federal clean energy standard. Title2, American energy. Subtitle 8, conservation and efficiency --(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: You`re going to make us read the bill out loud? Well, we`ve justhired on a new staff speed reader and he`ll be doing that reading for us.That was 2009 in the House. For a variety of reasons, the Senate apparentlycannot do that same thing tonight. They can`t bring the speed reader back,and so for hours now we have been listening to the poor clerks of theSenate who did not ask for this, and who are getting no thanks from theRepublicans requiring them to do this.For hours now, the clerks in the Senate have been pointlessly reading outloud the 600 plus page text of the COVID relief bill. Also all so it takeslonger for the COVID relief bill to pass.The text of the bill is not a secret. It has been available for a long timefor anyone to read if they wanted to. This stunt tonight making all theclerks have to do this, it`s not going to stop the bill from passing. It`sjust Republicans making these clerks do all this all day so it takes longerand longer and longer and it`s must exhausting for COVID relief toultimately pass making the clerks pay, making the Senate staff pay, thatwill show them. It`s hilarious, right?And I will say just as an aside here, what they`re doing tonight makingthese clerks read the bill for no reason, read the whole thing out loud,this is the big gun that the Republicans have been threatening Democratswith this year in the Senate. So this whole question as to whether or notDemocrats will vote among themselves to get rid of the filibuster.The filibuster means it takes 60 votes to pass something instead ofmajority, instead of 50 votes. Democrats have 50 votes. They can`t get 10Republicans to side with them on anything. So, as long as this filibusterrule exists, which puts a 60-vote requirement on any legislation, nothingelse is going to pass except for a few things that they can pass, a fewthings that they can pass through arcane budget rules that really limitwhat they can do.So Democrats have been debates amongst themselves whether they should voteto get rid of the filibuster so they can pass stuff in the Senate and notlet the minority Republicans block all legislation. While Democrats havebeen debating that amongst themselves, Republicans have been pounding theirchests and threatening that if the Democrats vote to do that, theRepublicans will go nuclear. They will make the Democrats rue the day.What they have threatened specifically is that they will slow everythingdown in the Senate so much that it will just be impossible to do anything.It will be totally exhausting.What they`ve been threatening to do is exactly what they`re doing tonight.What they`re threatening if Democrats get rid of the filibuster is to dothis, to force the bills to be read out loud in order to keep the Senate insession overnight and on weekends, which is, in fact, really annoying and abig pointless waste of time, but you know what? Republicans, if you`regoing to do this anyway, even while the Democrats have kept the filibusterintact, then why should they be afraid of your threat to do this. You`realready doing it.It`s like breaking somebody`s glasses and then saying, oh, you better dowhat I say or I`ll break your glasses. Dude, you already broke my glasses.Why would I do what you want now?You can`t threaten me with what I`ve already done. You`ll do more of this?I`ve already shown that I can deal with this. This is what you`rethreatening me with?I said a minute ago, I`d say more about this big important bill that passedthe House last night, H.R.1. This is the For the People Act. It`s votingrights, it`s election reforms. It`s basically small D democracy reforms,passed the House last night.Former First Lady Michelle Obama released a really interesting statement, astrong statement on that bill tonight. She said I`m thrilled to see thatthe House of Representatives has passed the For the People Act.She said that on Twitter, and then she attached this statement that says inpart, quote: While we celebrate historic gains, unfortunately too manyleaders are working to reverse that progress and make it harder for peoplewith every right to vote to cast a ballot. Our democracy remains underattack by the partisan and unpatriotic actions of those at the state leveldoing everything they can to curtail access to the ballot box.Make no mistake: the idea that we cannot both hold secure elections andensure that every eligible voter can make their voices heard is a falsechoice. It`s based on lies and it flies in the face of our history. It`ssad, it`s infuriating, and she says, quote, it is a genuine threat to ourfuture that must be taken seriously.Michelle Obama says, quote: That`s why I`m thrilled to see the house passthe For the People Act. This bill will make it easier for ordinaryAmericans to register and cast a ballot. It will ramp up election securityand end partisan gerrymandering, and it will do much, much more to makesure that our system of government remains in the hands of the many and notthe few.I urge the Senate to follow suit and pass this bill as soon as possiblebecause there is nothing more important to the health and future of ourdemocracy than safeguarding the right to vote.Statement tonight from former First Lady Michelle Obama on the for thepeople act that passed the House last night. She is urging the Senate topass it as well. It will not pass the Senate as long as the filibuster isintact.That bill will never get a single Republican vote, and that means there`sno way for it to pass into law even though the Democrats have the majorityin the House and the Democrats have the majority in the Senate, and theDemocrats have a Democrat in the White House who wants to sign it. And, youknow, even if the Democrats allowed the filibuster to stay in place foreverything else, allowed Republicans to require a 60-vote margin to passeverything else, but they narrowed it just so you`re couldn`t use itagainst voting rights anymore, and the filibuster`s been narrowed veryrecently.The Republicans in 2017 narrowed the filibuster so you couldn`t require 60votes to confirm a Supreme Court justice. They just made that change in2017. Why couldn`t the Democrats say, you know what, you changed thefilibuster in 2017 for Supreme Court justices. We`re going to change thefilibuster in 2021 not to get rid of it, but just so you can`t use thefilibuster -- you can`t require a 60-vote margin to pass stuff that relatesto our small d democracy, to pass voting rights legislation.They could limit the filibuster just that way, and if they did that, thatcould pass H.R. 1. That could pass the For the People Act. That could getthe sweeping protections of voting rights enshrined into federal law.And the Republicans, yes, they`d be very angry and they might retaliate byslowing the Senate down as much as possible and forcing bills to be readout loud. Imagine, right?Honestly, they`re doing that already. All the stuff they`ve beenthreatening the Democrats with, they`re already doing it. They`re doing ittonight. They`re doing it as we speak. So Democrats, what are you afraidof?SENATE CLERK: Two, adoption tax period identification number. For purposesof subparagraph 3 in the place of a defendant who is adopter for adoption,the term valid identification number shall include the adoption taxpayer --(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: They say if you`re not prepared to hear the answer, then maybe youshouldn`t ask the question.Texas Republican Governor Greg Abbott apparently took that advice to heartthis week when the governor ended the state`s mask mandate and boasted thatTexas is now 100 percent no restrictions to protect people from thecoronavirus.Apparently when he made that change this week, he did not bother to ask hiscoronavirus advisers about it. Maybe he didn`t like what he thought theywould say if he asked them. Governor Abbott had previously touted that hehad these four nationally recognized medical advisers who would guide allof his decision-making on stopping the spread of COVID-19 in Texas.But when Texas reporters called those advisers this week after the bigpolicy change, three of the four said, nope, they`d never been consulted byGovernor Abbott about this huge change he just made and the fourth toldreporters that he, quote, couldn`t say whether the move was a good idea.Not much use having a bunch of top flight medical advisers for your COVIDresponse if you`re just going to not ask them before you lift allcoronavirus restrictions in the nation`s second largest state.But the repeal of the mask mandate in Texas and all of the restrictionsthat are designed to protect Texans from getting COVID 19, for all thedanger it could pose to the health of Texans by creating another surge incases there, it could also easily become a mask problem. Texas has thesecond highest number of daily cases in the country. If a state that bigwith that many cases gets really cavalier in terms of transmission, thatcould be a real problem in terms of America`s efforts to get our wholecountry vaccinated.One of the things Dr. Fauci has been warning for weeks and weeks is themore virus transmission there is, the more cases there are, the more likelywe are to see more of these dangerous variants develop. Viruses don`tmutate unless they replicate. They replicate when they get into new hosts,when they get into new bodies. More transmission into new people, morecases means more replication, more replication means more opportunities formore mutations. And these mutations produce the variants that in some casesare more resistant to our existing vaccines.So you see the problem, right? If states start lifting restrictions andstart sparking a surge in new cases, that`s going to lead to more newvariants, which will make the vaccines less effective everywhere.All the states scrapping their mask mandates, Mississippi, Alabama, they`reall worrying, but Texas is the most worrying simply because its size meansits actions will have bigger national consequences. Then, of course,there`s the practical concerns for how these decisions play out on theground.Now that Texas has lifted its mask mandate, now that the governor isgleefully declaring that Texas is 100 percent open and no more masks, allthe conflicts over mask wearing are going to move to the door steps ofindividual bids and facilities that will each have to make their owndecisions about whether to require masks and how to enforce it if they`regoing to, given what the governor is saying and what the state rules arenow.These conflicts have already led to violence across the country. A securityguard in Michigan shot and killed at a Family Dollar Store after refusingto allow somebody in without a mask. Another man shot and killed a policeofficer in Louisiana after the cop escorted him out of a high schoolbasketball game for not wearing a mask. And in Houston, Texas, the "A.P."reports that Police Chief Art Acevedo is worried about, quote, moreaggressive encounters like one in December when a customer confronted overa mask at a Houston bar smashed a glass over an employee`s head.Houston police officers for their part will continue wearing masks despitewhat the governor is doing at the state level. Chief Acevedo says, quote,we can see conflict coming, sadly, and I think a lot of this is going to beself-inflicted.Joining us now I`m pleased to say is Houston`s police chief, Art Acevedo.Chief Acevedo, it`s really kind of you to make time to be with us tonight.Thank you.ART ACEVEDO, HOUSTON POLICE CHIEF: Thank you. Thanks for having me in.Honored to be on.MADDOW: What are your concerns about the governor`s decision to rescind thestatewide mask order? What kind of impact do you think that`s going to haveon the Houston PD?ACEVEDO: Well, I think first and foremost, my concern is for my fellowTexans. We all know what the science says. We`re supposed to be wearingthese masks when we`re in close proximity to each other, and it runscontrary to everything we`ve been told.And quite frankly last time we opened the state back in May of 2020, we haddone really well as a police department keeping the virus down. As of twodays ago, we had 60 officers that are off because of this virus. I promiseyou, you come back in six weeks, I hope I`m wrong, but we`re going to seethat many more of our first responders are going to be impacted by thevirus, not to mention our fellow Texans.On top of that, now we`re going to have more conflict in our communitybecause in Texas we have property rights, business owners have propertyrights, and they have every right to require these masks, and the folks aregoing to be called out to deal with the violence that may come from this issadly our men and women in blue.MADDOW: So property rights in Texas, a business owner, for example, canstill insist that a mask has to be worn by any customer coming to thatbusiness or anybody coming to that business for any reason, do you ananticipate despite that right by the business owner, there will be conflictthat first responders, police officers in particular are going to have todeal with because those people who don`t want to wear a mask is going tosay, hey, the governor told me I don`t have to wear a mask despite whatyou`re telling me.ACEVEDO: That`s exactly right. We have a governor that has gone against thescience, gone against what`s in the best interests of the health andcollective safety of the men and women and children in this state, and nowwhat we`re going to see is people are going to say the heck with you, apolice officer or business owner. I`m going to do what I want to do. If itwas happening with a governor`s order, you can imagine what`s going tohappen now that the governor says you don`t have to wear them.I think it`s bad policy. It`s shortsighted and sadly, when you look at thefact that we may have enough vaccine for the entire nation by May accordingto the Biden administration, we`re so close to getting this done that thisis a step in the wrong direction. It`s going to have a very negative anddeadly impact for the American people, and here are the people in Texas.It`s something we should all be concerned about.MADDOW: Chief, do you feel like you have any lessons learned or any wisdomyou can impart to people watching tonight about sort of de-escalation whenit comes to conflicts like that. I think in a lot of states, this a lot ofdifferent circumstances where there`s all sorts of different types of maskrules, we have -- a lot of us have seen and we`ve all heard about scaryconfrontations where people who work at specific workplaces feel threatenedand feel at risk by people coming into those workplaces and not wearing amask. We`ve seen confrontations on street corners. We`ve seenconfrontations among passers by.Have we learned anything about how to deescalate those situations so theydon`t end up in violence?ACEVEDO: Well, you know, sadly when you look at the issues of violence, upand generally across the country, police chiefs think that COVID and thepsychological impact it`s had on the American people is impacting violence.What we hope people will do is listen. You don`t get paid enough to have todeal with an angry person that, quite frankly, is so self-centered thatthey`re more interested in their so-called freedom than in simply wearingsomething that can save the lives of their fellow human being.Please don`t get in a physical confrontation. Just let them go on the way.If they`re not leaving, call the police. That`s what we`re there. And we`retrained, helping de-escalate and resolve the situation.But we`ve seen police officers murdered. We saw here in Houston, a youngman, an employee in a bar with a glass broken over his head simply becausewe want people to be decent enough, decent enough, forget what the governorsays, forget what the law says. What does our own humanity call upon us todo? And that`s to be cognizant that this is one of the best things we cando is wear masks to keep each other safe.And I`m hopeful that Texans are by and large good people, God-fearingpeople, people that care about their neighbor. This will be a goodopportunity to see who cares about their neighbor and who cares aboutthemselves. I think it`s going to be very telling about the characters ofthe people we live and work with.MADDOW: Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo -- Chief, it`s kind of you to takethis time to be with us here tonight. Good luck in the days ahead. I knowthis is a new challenge for your force.ACEVEDO: Yeah, thank you very much. Be safe.MADDOW: All right, much more ahead tonight, stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)SENATE CLERK: In general chapter 77 of such code is amended by searchingafter section 7527, the following new section, section 7527A, advancedpayment of child tax credit. A, in general, the secretary --MADDOW: So this is a live picture, and that`s live sound from the Senatefloor. This is what Republicans think is a hilarious stunt. Will you bringthe sound down a little bit there? I think we get the point, yes, thankyou.This is what Republicans think is a hilarious stunt to force Senate clerksto read out loud every single word of the COVID relief bill, not becauseit`s not otherwise available for people to read it if they want to. It is.And not because their own constituents don`t want this bill. This isactually some of the most popular major legislation in decades.Republicans just want to make as much of a mess of it as they can, and sothe poor Senate staff is going to have to go all night. WisconsinRepublican Senator Ron Johnson is the senator who forced this tonight.Democratic Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut today used his time today inthe Senate to blow up one by one the Republicans` supposed objections tothe COVID relief bill.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): It`s a little hard to listen to my Republicancolleagues claim that this bill is too expensive when they were willing tospend the exact same amount of money in 2017 on tax cuts for their wealthycorporate and millionaire friends. So in many ways, the crisis today isexponentially worse than it was a year ago when Republicans to a personwere willing to spend $2 trillion on the crisis.Now, all of a sudden, when Democrats are in charge of the White House, whena Democratic majority leader sits here in the United States Senate, $1.9trillion is too much money to spend on a crisis that is taking on a dailybasis three to four times as many lives as it did when we spent this moneya year ago.Here`s the second critique that is made over and over about this bill. It`sa partisan bill Republicans say. Well, that is a complaint of Republicansown making because it is only a partisan bill in the United States Senate.Three out of four voters support the American rescue plan. All of a suddensince Democrats took control of the White House and took control of theSenate, all of these things, which were categorized as COVID relief byRepublicans in March are no longer COVID relief.You`re just supposed to think of these as extras, as Democratic priorities.Ninety percent, 95 percent of what`s in the package we`re voting on todayis simply an extension of the same set of funding streams that weauthorized in a bipartisan way a year ago. And so this idea that this issome Democratic wish list, when we are essentially just extending orincreasing the same funding streams that were in the CARES Act is nonsense.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Nonsense.Democratic Senator Chris Murphy just picking apart one by one the argumentsthat Republicans have used to justify voting against the very, very popularCOVID relief bill. All Republicans are apparently going to vote against it.It`s very popular. He`s, you know, calling their bluff and pointing outthat even the Republicans have voted for stuff like this with this kind ofa price tag before, quote, all of a sudden since Democrats took control ofthe White House and the Senate, Republicans are now clutching theirproverbial pearls and saying how horrible it is.It is still a live ongoing process in the Senate as the Republicans haveforced the out loud pointless reading of the bill.Senator Chris Murphy joins us next. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)SENATE CLERK: -- 27A, to such taxpayer during taxable year. Any failure todo so reduced to credit shall be treated as a rising out of a mathematicaland clerical error and --MADDOW: That is a live shot and that is live sound. Tonight we are in themiddle of a big stunt by Republicans where they are holding up the passageof the COVID relief bill by forcing Senate staffers to stay up all nightreading every word of the bill out loud for no reason.They apparently are going to try keep doing things like this to hold up thebill for days more, if not weeks more because, yeah, definitely, what thecountry needs is for us to wait as long as pointlessly possible to pass thefunding for vaccine distribution and the money to reopen schools. It`sdefinitely going to pass. We just need to make sure we waste as much timeas possible before we pass it, because that`s how you own the libs.Joining us is Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut.Senator, I really appreciate you making time to be here tonight. Thank you.MURPHY: Thanks.MADDOW: What should we think about what`s happening in the Senate rightnow? The country wants the COVID relief bill. It is broadly popular amongDemocratic voters, independent voters, Republican voters, the Republicansare deciding they`re just going to make it as painful as possible, asexhausting as possible, and take as long as possible, even though it`sultimately going to pass.What do you think the country should take away from that?MURPHY: Well, you know, this is nothing new, right? Both sides have useddelaying tactics. I think it`s the first time I have ever watched eitherparty force these clerks to sit there and read every word of a, you know,multi-hundred-page bill.But when Democrats have used delaying tactics in the past, we knew thepublic was on our side, right? I went to the floor and gave a 15-hourspeech in favor of a background checks bill supported by 90 percent ofAmericans. We used all sort of tactics to try to extend the debate on therepeal of the Affordable Care Act because 70 to 80 percent of Americanssupported our side.In this case, you know, this is a wildly popular bill. It`s a bill thatpeople want. As I said on the floor today, 60 percent of Republicans reallywant the stuff that`s in here.So to the extent that they are reading the bill aloud, to the extentanybody is listening to it, what they`re going to hear is a whole bunch ofprovisions, extension of unemployment benefits, $1,400 checks for low andmiddle income Americans, money to produce more vaccines more quickly, moneyto reopen our schools, all of that is stuff that people really, reallywant.So if they want to extend this debate, I think it, frankly, hurts thempolitically. I think it also hurts the American public because we arerunning up against some deadlines here, unemployment benefits expire inabout a week. So, we really need to get this done. We will stay through theweekend to make sure the delay tactics don`t ultimately stop the bill frombeing passed.MADDOW: It strikes me, and I said something about this earlier in the showtonight, that what the -- what`s happening on the floor of the Senate, thisforced pointless exhausting delay and waste of time and waste of effort isthe sort of thing that Republicans threaten to do if Democrats reform thefilibuster, if Democrats either got rid of or their owed the rule thatallows Republicans to require 60 votes to pass legislation, so that theycan -- you can instead pass things with just 50 votes, with just amajority. This is sort of the big gun they threatened to use, the bigproverbial gun they threaten to use. They are doing it without any reformof the filibuster.I wonder if that might change the internal negotiations and discussionsamong Democrats about whether it`s worth it to try to narrow the filibusterso that some important legislation can pass.MURPHY: Well, as you know, I think the filibuster is fundamentally anti-democratic. I thought that for a long time. The American public made achoice in 2020. They wanted not only for Joe Biden to be president, butthey wanted his party to control Congress so that his agenda could pass.The fact of the matter is, that`s difficult when 40 members of the Senatecan hold everything up. What you are seeing tonight is how the filibusterused to be use. It used to be that if you wanted to filibuster something,you actually had to stay on the Senate floor. You had to actually make yourcase day after day.If your case was really unpopular, the longer you stayed on the floor, theworse you did. So people didn`t use the filibuster to stop things that theAmerican public wanted. Now, that`s not what the filibuster is. It`s sortof an automatic right of the minority to require 60 votes to get anythingpassed.So, one of the reforms we are thinking about when it comes to filibuster isgoing back to the old days and saying, if you want to stop something frompassing, you actually have to sit on the floor. You actually have to givespeech after speech because I think the Republicans or Democrats, if theyare in the minority, would be much less willing to use it if they had to dothis, if they had to put on a show in opposition to something that theAmerican public really wanted.MADDOW: The reason there hasn`t been a change in the filibuster rulesalready is as far as we can tell from the outside a couple of your moremoderate colleagues, Kyrsten Sinema from Arizona and Joe Manchin from WestVirginia has said they don`t want any change in the filibuster rule.Can you pull back the curtain a little bit and just tell us if anybody istalking to them about these things, or the type of -- not abolishing thefilibuster but reforming it or tweaking it to make it more meaningful. Arethose things happening? They are the ones that have to be moved here.MURPHY: I understand folks` impatience. We are, of course, only about 30days into the new president`s term, only two months into this new session.And so we are having conversations inside the caucus about how we canreform the rules. But I don`t know that we should expect that they aregoing to bear fruit immediately.Listen, I do think that there is a belief amongst some in Congress that thefilibuster promotes bipartisanship by requiring members of the minorityparty to sign off on something before it becomes law, you are incentivizingthe two parties to come together. There is really no evidence that that`show it works. In fact, because it gives the minority party veto power, itjust allows them to sit on the sidelines and do nothing.It really has been a very long time since the Senate has done anythingmeaningfully and bipartisan. Immigration reform back in 2013 was probablythe last time. If you want to get the two parties to come together, thengive the majority party the ability to move things with a majority vote.That will quickly incentivize the minority party to come to the table andtry to get something that is a little bit closer to their priority list.So, I think that conversation is going to continue to happen and matureinside the caucus. My hope is that we will be able to come together aroundsome rules of reform. Probably doesn`t happen until a little bit later inthe term.MADDOW: Senator Chris Murphy, appreciate you being here tonight. Thank youso much.MURPHY: Thank you.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: That is going to do it for us tonight. Thank you for being here onthis fine Friday eve. I`ll see you again tomorrow.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>