Summary:President Joe Biden announced that there will be enough vaccine forevery adult in America by May 31st. Dr. David Kessler, chief scienceofficer for COVID-19 response under President Biden, is interviewed. "NewYork Times" Justice Department reporter, Katie Benner is interviewed aboutthe Biden administration naming Channing Phillips as top federal prosecutorin D.C.Transcript:SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): And we shouldn`t be selling them weapons. Andso, I think the administration is right now having a debate about what oursecurity partnership looks like, and if we make changes to that, while itwon`t look like a personal sanctions on MBS, it will have a big impact onhim and his priorities.CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: All right. Senator Chris Murphy, thanks formaking time tonight.That is ALL IN on this Tuesday night."THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thank you, my friend. Muchappreciated.And thanks to you at home for joining us for this hour. Before we start inearnest tonight, I do want to take a second, if you will indulge me, I havea thank you that I need to say. I`m not going to spend a ton on this, but Ijust want to tell you that we`ve had a couple of real milestones here atthe show, good ones.In January, for the first time ever, this show was the number one mostwatched show on all of cable television, which is crazy, right? Not justthe most watched show on cable news but the most watched show in all ofcable TV, everything. That was in January, which was flummoxing and Ithought absolutely was a fluke.But then today, we learned that we did it for a second month in a row. Itturns out we were the most watched show on all of cable TV for both Januaryand February, which I have no idea what to make of.But even better than that, for February, for this past month, not only werewe the most watched show on cable, but our network, this network, MSNBC,was the most watched network in all of cable TV in the month of February,which is the first time that has ever been true for us as a network sincewe came into existence nearly 25 years ago. So if you know me, if you`veever seen the show, you know that I don`t talk about ratings and cable newswars and all that stuff so I`m not going to dwell on this, I will notmention it again.But it is a really big deal for us. And I`m really thankful to you forwatching this show. I had no idea there would ever be so many of youwatching. It does blow my mind personally, but I am so grateful andhumbled.Thank you for supporting the show. Thank you for supporting MSNBC. We willkeep doing our best to be worthy of your time and your trust for you tuningin.So, all right. Let us never speak of this again. Sorry. But I had to getthat out.All right. Moving on. Today, the nation`s new commerce secretary wasconfirmed by the senate, Gina Raimondo. She is the governor of RhodeIsland, or she was the governor of Rhode Island, now she will be our newcommerce secretary.Yesterday, the new education secretary was confirmed as well, MiguelCardona. The Senate also tonight just confirmed Cecilia Rouse to be chairof the Council of Economic Advisers. That was an overwhelming vote, it`s95-4 for Cecilia Rouse.The nomination of Williams Burns to be CIA director just got unanimous voteout of the Intelligence Committee, and that will now head to the floor, aunanimous vote in committee is a good sign that he may get a unanimous voteon the floor.Deb Haaland to run the Interior Department, Xavier Becerra to be healthsecretary, those Biden cabinet nominations seem to be on track to happensoon as well.Now, before tonight, we were still waiting after days and days and days anddays to see if a Republican senator would decide that he or she wouldsupport Neera Tanden to run the office of management and budget in theWhite House. The reason the White House needed to look for a Republican tosupport Ms. Tanden is because conservative Democrat Joe Manchin of WestVirginia announced that he wouldn`t vote for her, which immediately, it wasevident as soon as he said that, that that could potentially scupper hernomination. He said he decided he did not like the combative tone of someof Neera Tanden`s past tweets.And the reason this is sticking in everyone`s craw, the reason thatannouncement that he wouldn`t support Tanden has become sort of a stain onSenator Manchin`s reputation, is not that senators don`t have a choice asto which way they`re going to vote on every nominee. It`s the question ofthe standard that he`s applying here, because of course Senator Manchinvoted to confirm plenty of Trump nominees, all men, of course, who had muchworse problems with their online tone than Neera Tanden ever got anywherenear.The reason this is a real problem for Senator Manchin and his reputation isbecause for some reason, Senator Manchin was only bothered by her tone inher online statements. He was not similarly bothered by the much moreinflammatory things said by Republican male nominees who he happily votedfor in the past. Again, all senators have a choice to -- you know, they areconsulted, right, advise and consent is a real thing, they`re supposed tomake a real decision on every nominee.The problem here is not Senator Manchin voting against a Democraticpresident`s nominee. The problem is Senator Manchin applying a blatant andinexplicable double standard, just for her, when guys who did much worsewere no problem for him but for some reason she really bugs him.So because of that, we`ve been waiting to see if Senator Manchin wouldexplain that so that this wouldn`t accrue to his reputation the way it`sgoing to. In the absence that have, we`ve been waiting to see if aRepublican would actually stand up to support her so she could get the 50votes she needed to be confirmed to run the White House budget office. LisaMurkowski, the Republican senator from Alaska, was thought of as apotential crossover vote for Neera Tanden. Tanden and Murkowski met inMurkowski`s office on Capitol Hill yesterday. Senator Murkowski still hadnot said how she would vote on the Tanden nomination when it got to thefloor.But tonight all this waiting and wondering and I think consternation overthe behavior of Senator Manchin came to an end. Well, maybe theconsternation about Senator Manchin will continue, but the waiting aboutNeera Tanden came to an end when she told the White House she wouldwithdraw her nomination.Now, the result of this based on a White House statement in response, isthat Tanden will get another job in the Biden administration that does notrequire nomination, she will join the administration. And Senator Manchinwill drag this around as a stain on his reputation in the long run. But italso means that President Biden will need to pick a new nominee to run theWhite House Budget Office. So, there is some uncertainty now in terms ofhow the Biden cabinet is going to look in the end because the Tandennomination has come to an end.That said, Merrick garland seems to be moving forward fairly smoothly to bethe next attorney general of the United States, although somewhat along thesame lines. Perhaps it should also be noted that two women of color whohave been named by President Biden to be other senior officials in thejustice department working directly under attorney general designateMerrick Garland, two women of color, Kristen Clark and Vanita Gupta, haveattracted fairly rabid attacks from Republicans at this point. We`ll seewhat happens to their nominations as well even as Merrick Garland seems tobe moving forward. We`ll see if Joe Manchin decides if he doesn`t like themfor some reason.At the Justice Department, we`ll have more ahead this hour on theproverbial burning wreckage that all the Biden appointees will be walkinginto at the Justice Department and the challenges ahead with theprosecutions related to the January 6th capital attack. There was aninteresting and sort of surprise announcement made today about who`s goingto be taking a key job in the Biden Justice Department that will have animportant relationship not only to the January 6th arrest and prosecutionsbut also to a bunch of the cases that end up in a weird semi-legal limboafter what appears to have been improper influence, improper politicalinfluence on Justice Department decisions under the Trump administration.A new appointee announced today for a key part of the Justice Departmentwho is going to have that mess to clean up. We`ll have more on that comingup later this hour.The new defense secretary in the Biden administration, you`ll remember hewas confirmed very quickly after the inauguration, retired General LloydAustin.It`s interesting, for all of the diversity in our armed forces, includingat the top, for all the pioneering leadership of people like Colin Powellwho served as chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, of course, before hebecame secretary of state, before Lloyd Austin, it`s almost impossible tobelieve, but the defense department never had an African-American secretaryof defense before Mr. Austin took that role this year under PresidentBiden.And you might remember a few years back in Canada, Prime Minister JustinTrudeau also made a groundbreaking sort of glass-ceiling-breaking choicefor defense minister in that country. He chose a man named Harjit SinghSajjan to be Canada`s minister of national defense, an equivalent positionas Mr. Austin here. Mr. Sajjan is a Sikh, he wears a turban as a sign ofhis faith. He`s a former police officer, he`s very photogenic andcharismatic and became a bit of an international media star when he wasfirst named to the cabinet.But interestingly, Minister Sajjan was one of four Sikh Canadians whoJustin Trudeau named to his first cabinet. The infrastructure minister, thescience minister, the minister for small business and tourism, and thedefense minister, all four of those Canadian cabinet minister of Sikhorigin in Justin Trudeau`s first cabinet.The Canadian population overall is about 1.5 percent Sikh. And as thosenumbers have grown and Sikh families have prospered in Canada and Sikhshave been elected to parliament and started to become high rankinggovernment ministers, every now and again we here in the states get sort ofmedia crossover. We cross over into our media and our culture of somethingcool happening in Canada to sort of celebrate -- celebrate is the thisrelatively new kind of diversity among Canadians and new immigrants there.Like for example, this gentleman, who lives in the Yukon Territory. Hisname is Gurdeep Pandher. And his social media presence is about the overthe top joy he takes in teaching other Canadians, Canadians born and bred,immigrant Canadians from all over, everyone, he teaches bhangra dancing.Here he is teaching Canadian soldiers at a firefighting training base, seethat helicopter in the background, these are Canadians soldiers, he`steaching them all how to dance bhangra, everybody can do it, everybody ishaving the time of their lives.Here he is on a navy warship, teaching Canadian navy sailors. Everybody canbhangra dance, everybody can do it. I love this guy.And this is what that same guy just posted today.(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)MADDOW: So he says in the tweet that accompanies this video, he says,yesterday evening I received my COVID-19 vaccine, then I went to a frozenlake to dance bhangra on it for joy, hope, and positivity, which I`mforwarding to Canada and everyone else.This is I got my vaccine dance, his joy at getting the COVID-19 vaccine.Honestly, it makes me feel better already.And here in the United States today, here is the Tennessee version thathave for us.(BEGI VIDEO CLIP)DOLLY PARTON, SINGER-SONGWRITER: Well, hey, it`s me. I`m finally going toget my vaccine. I`m so excited. I`ve been waiting. I`m old enough to get itand I`m smart enough to get it. So I`m very happy that I`m going to get myModerna shot today.And I wanted to tell everybody that you should get out there and do it too.I even changed one of my songs to fit the occasion. Vaccine, vaccine,vaccine, vaccine, I`m begging of you please don`t hesitate. Vaccine,vaccine, vaccine, vaccine , cause once you`re dead, then that`s a bit toolateI know I`m trying to be funny now but I`m dead serious about the vaccine. Ithink we all want to get back to normal, whatever that is. And that wouldbe a great shot in the arm, wouldn`t it? If we could get back to that.But anyhow, I just wanted to encourage everybody because the sooner we getto feeling better the sooner we`ll get back to being normal. So I just wantto say to all of you cowards out there, don`t be such a chicken squat. Getout there and get your shot.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Dolly Parton today, the one and only. She`s had a long timerelationship with Vanderbilt University. You may have heard or seen theheadlines from a couple of months ago, she gave them personally a milliondollar donation at Vanderbilt, she helped pay for the development of theModerna vaccine and today Dolly Parton got her shot. Because she`s DollyParton, she got it without having to roll up her sleeve because of courseshe already had a special dress that already had upper shoulder cutouts sothey could just give her the shot right there without once interruptingeven for a second her perfect Dolly Parton glamour.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)PARTON: Think you got it?UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I got it.PARTON: Okay. That didn`t hurt. Just stung a little bit. But that was fromthe alcohol pad, I think.UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.PARTON: OK, all right.UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let me quickly --PARTON: You`re going to mess up my beauty mark? I`m joking, you do whatyou got to do. I don`t want blood on my clothes. Hey, I did it, I did it!(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: I did it, I did it! Dolly Parton in Tennessee today. Dolly gother shot. The Sikh Canadian teach everyone to dance guy got it. And wentout and danced the bhangra on a frozen lake to celebrate. I will take it, Iwill take it, more like this, please.Today was a bunch of big news, really big news on COVID. There was someinexplicable news mixed into it from Texas and Mississippi where todaygovernors in those states announced their dropping their mask requirementsentirely in those states. Why now?Texas and Mississippi are both states where case numbers have very recentlystarted to climb back up. Look at the far right side of each of thosegraphs. For all the progress each of those states has made and all thattrauma and death they have been through, their numbers have just started tocome back up.Case numbers in both states on the upswing. And vaccines now rolling out insufficient numbers and increasing numbers that can get us to the end ofthis thing if we can just hold on a few more weeks. And they`re decidingthey can`t wait another second. They`re pulling all COVID-related rules. Atleast to some eyes, like I said, fairly inexplicable decisions today inTexas and Mississippi. It`s not like Texas and Mississippi don`t have otherthings to be worrying about right now.Both states have thousands of residents without clean drinking waterbecause of infrastructure failures. In the capitals of both states theyhave huge present dangers right now with thousands of residents withoutpotable drinking water because the state has absolutely blown it. Those twoRepublican governors in those states have decided this is the right momentfor a big distracting disastrous public health decision. Anyway, knockyourself out.Meanwhile, though, today is the day we got really very big news aboutvaccine progress. Somehow, and we`re going to try to find out how tonight,somehow the administration persuaded two big rival drug companies, Merckand Johnson & Johnson, to stop competing on this front and insteadcooperate, to help each other out.Johnson & Johnson, as you know, has just developed this new vaccine thatwas only just approved this weekend, started shipping out yesterday. Allthe data say it works great, it only requires one shot, it only needs to bestored in a normal refrigerator without any special equipment. It ischeaper than the other two vaccines we got approved. It`s got sort ofeverything going for it, except for whatever reason, the Bidenadministration has been saying for a while now that they were surprised tolearn when they took over five weeks ago, that Johnson & Johnson didn`tactually have the logistical capacity to manufacture that vaccine in largeenough amounts.So we talked with the chief science adviser to the COVID-19 response, Dr.David Kessler, about that a couple of weeks ago. He said that he had beenworking on that problem that very day, and that there was a whole ofgovernment effort to work on that problem among others in terms of theseproduction bottlenecks. Well, today, the Biden administration announcedthey have worked out a deal where this competing company, where Merck willcome in and help with the manufacturing of another company`s, with Johnson& Johnson`s, vaccine.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The vice president and I havesome good news to report. Today, we`re announcing a major step forward. Twoof the largest health care and pharmaceutical companies in the world thatare usually competitors are working together on the vaccine. Johnson &Johnson and Merck will work together to expand the production of Johnson &Johnson`s vaccine. This is the type of collaboration between companies wesaw in World War II.We also invoked the defense production act to equip two Merck facilities tothe standards necessary to safely manufacture the J&J vaccine. Johnson &Johnson`s vaccine manufacturing facilities will now begin to operate 24/7.Here is what all this means. We`re now on track to have enough vaccinesupply for every adult in America by the end of May.Let me say that again. I`m pleased to announce today as a consequence ofthe stepped-up process, that I`ve ordered and just outlined, this countrywill have enough vaccine supply, I`ll say it again, for every adult inAmerica by the end of May. By the end of May. That`s progress.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Enough vaccine for every adult in America by May 31st. By the endof May.If he means that, I think that means in some ways we might get summer backthis year. I mean, depending on whether or not that vaccine actually getsinto enough American arms. End of May, that`s two months earlier than theypreviously thought they were going to get there.The president went on to say to administer all these vaccines, we need morevaccinators, retired directors and nurses come out of retirement to help.FEMA personnel, defense personnel, I definite want to know more about that.It`s one thing to have enough fluid, it`s one thing to have the vaccinessitting in vials. It`s another thing to make sure it can get into enoughAmericans. But if production is going to be that much faster than theythought it was going to be, if they`ve fixed bottlenecks so they`ll haveenough for every American by the end of may, then we better have adistribution system that will get it into enough Americans by the end ofMay to -- well, to change everything.So I want to know more about that. I also want to know more about this partof it. We are of course I think we`re 37 days into the new administration.President Biden said in his first 100 days he wanted the U.S. to administer100 million vaccination doses. Well, at 37 days in, we`re already overhalfway there. We`re well over 50 million doses administered. So it doeslook like we are ahead of the target to -- ahead of pace to hit thattarget.But alongside the 100 million doses in 100 days, President Biden also saidhe wanted all elementary schools reopened in his first 100 days. And theCDC has put out guidance about what it takes to safely reopen schools. Mostschools, honestly, don`t yet meet that criteria, and there`s a lot ofconcern as to what it`s going to take to get schools to a point where theydo meet that criteria.The money in the COVID relief bill that`s for reopening schools safely,that will help. But that too is a ways off, it hasn`t even passed theSenate yet. So teachers and school staff in particular have been reallyworried about what it means to have all this new pressure to open schools,especially to open elementary schools and to open them quickly. Whicheverybody agrees is an important goal, it`s really important for kids.But it`s unnerving to have that sense of pressure and to have that sense ofimminent, potentially forced reopenings, while so many adults who makeschools run still themselves can`t get vaccinated. Well, here`s the otherbig news today. Here`s what President Biden said about that.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)BIDEN: Over 30 states have already taken the step to prioritize educatorsfor vaccination. And today, I`m using the full authority of the federalgovernment. I`m directing every state to do the same. My challenge to allstates, territories, and the District of Columbia, is this: we want everyeducator, school staff member, childcare worker, to receive at least oneshot by the end of the month of March.To help make this happen, starting next week and for a month, the month ofMarch, we`ll be using our federal pharmacy program to prioritize thevaccination of pre-K through 12 educators and staff and childcare workers.Throughout March, they will be able to sign up for an appointment at apharmacy near them.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: They`ll be able to sign up for an appointment at a pharmacy nearthem. Prioritize the vaccination of pre-K through 12. So, pre-K throughelementary school, middle school, high school educators and staff, pluschildcare workers.What is the federal pharmacy program and how will this work? Getting everyteacher and school staff member, every childcare worker in the countryvaccinated this month, this month, he wants this done by the end of March,he wants them to all have at least one vaccination shot by the end of thismonth, by this new initiative from the federal government, that would beabsolutely huge. How is that going to work exactly?And are we really going to have enough vaccine for every adult in thecountry by the end of May? Is that just on paper that we`ll have enough? Isthe distribution plan enough to actually make that happen? Because --because as much as I love the winter, and I do, like dancing on a frozenlake love the winter, the idea of a country where all the teachers arevaccinated this month and there is vaccine enough for everyone else in thecountry before the start of June, that`s enough to make me love the spring,and the summer too.Joining us now for the interview is Dr. David Kessler. He is the chiefscience officer for COVID-19 response under President Biden.And, sir, it`s an honor to have your time tonight. Thank you so much forbeing here.DR. DAVID KESSLER, BIDEN ADMIN. COVID RESPONSEN CHIEF SCIENCE OFFICER:It`s a pleasure to be with you, Rachel.MADDOW: First, let me give you a chance to correct me if I explained anyof these new policy announcements or the new place that we are withvaccines in a way that was wrong or that missed the point at all.KESSLER: No, you got it exactly right. In three months we will have enoughvaccine for every adult in this country.MADDOW: When you think about the match of the need to the resources, thisis obviously a huge piece of it. Will there be enough actual vaccine,actual fluid in vials, to vaccinate every adult in the country, knowingthat is now going to happen by the end of may rather than by the end ofJuly which was the already-ambitious goal you had announced, that was ahuge piece of it. The other part of matching the resources to the needsthough is that the distribution.And we`ve all experienced -- my family has experienced it, the difficultyand complexity of trying to get people matched up with vaccines that theyneed, try to get those appointments, try to get people in line, is that --is distribution on that front going to expand to meet the need in the waythat the production of vaccine is?KESSLER: Exactly. You know, right now, we have many of our state and localpartners administering vaccines. But we will add and are adding every weeknot only increased number of vaccinators but increased number of sites.We`re doing that at mass vaccination centers, mid-size vaccination centers,community health centers. As you mentioned, there will be a federalpharmacy program for teachers, among others.So there are a number of increasing distribution channels that will keep upwith this increased supply of vaccine.MADDOW: I`m not sure that I understand what a federal pharmacy program isand how that will work. For the teachers and school staff members andchildcare workers and all their families who are watching this tonighttrying to figure out what this means about their loved one or themselvesbeing able to get the vaccine by the end of this month, how does a federalpharmacy program work?KESSLER: Let me make it simple. Beginning the week of March 8th, go to theCDC website. If you`re a teacher, you will see the participating pharmaciesin your neighborhood that you can go to. Go to their web page.And if you`re a teacher, if you`re a childcare worker, if you`re a staffworker, if you`re a bus driver in a school, you are eligible to go to thatpharmacy and get your vaccine. And we want all teachers to have at leastone vaccination the month of March.MADDOW: Dr. Kessler, the last time you were here, you said that PresidentBiden had instructed you when he took office to do everything possible toaccelerate the production of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. You told me andyou told all of us here you were working on it day and night.I have to ask you, given your concern and your involvement in this, wereyou working on brokering this deal between Johnson & Johnson and Merck,that Merck would actually come in as a competitor and help Johnson &Johnson produce their product?KESSLER: The answer is yes. If you go back, look at the history a little,President Truman asked Robert Wood Johnson Jr. who was then president ofJohnson & Johnson to help bring companies together in World War II. AndPresident Biden made it very clear, the message was there is nothing toobig that you can`t do, go big here.These companies came together. I have to give them enormous credit, at theadministration`s urging. Merck and Johnson & Johnson came together. This isan historic partnership. They will produce -- they will double the amountof drug substance, that`s the vaccine itself.This is what`s required. This is their time. We were all in this with them.MADDOW: Dr. Kessler, last night we learned -- I`m not asking you apolitics question here, but it is a question that has a political context,so I`ll just preface it by saying that. Last night, we learned for thefirst time, and we reported here on the show for the first time, that theformer president, President Trump, was himself vaccinated at the WhiteHouse in January. And we learned of it for the first time last nightbecause the White House didn`t photograph the event, they didn`t announceit, they didn`t tell anyone that President Trump had been vaccinated.I thought when we reported last night that while he was president, he hadnever told Americans to get Americans, I told everyone last night. It turnsout he did write in December one tweet that told Americans to get theirshots.But that story highlights something that is very difficult for our countryin particular about vaccines. We have an odd partisan divide now on vaccinehesitancy. Among Americans who aren`t vaccinated, Democrats are more thantwice as likely as Republicans who say they will get the shot while theycan.And I don`t know why the previous administration treated President Trump`sown vaccine as a state secret and whether that might have helped if he hadtold everybody he had been vaccinated. Now that we have this weird partisandivide about vaccine hesitancy, how does a Democratic administration, howdo you guys work to help Republicans feel more positively about thevaccine, given that divide that really does exist.KESSLER: Just the science, Rachel. Two thousand people, more than 2,000people, have died each day recently. This vaccine prevents death. Itprevents hospitalization, the vast majority of people. I mean, it`s thatsimple.There are still today 65,000 cases a day. There are variants that are ofconcern. We can put this behind us. And yes, we will have enough vaccine inthe next three months for every American.But as the president said, you know, those are the vaccines. We needvaccinations. And it`s going to take everybody to step up and do their partand get this over with.MADDOW: Dr. David Kessler, former FDA commissioner, now the chief scienceofficer for the COVID-19 response under President Biden -- Dr. Kessler, itis a real honor for us whenever you`re able to make time to be here. Thankyou.KESSLER: Thank you, Rachel.MADDOW: OK. It is an historic day. If there`s going to be enough vaccinein this country for every American by the end of May, that is such a changein the trajectory than we were expecting. The delivery is going to have tobe there in order to make the promise of this real. But this might havegiven us back so much time and saved so many lives in this country, if wecan get to. Huge day.Much more to get to tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: There`s something to watch for in tomorrow`s news. The U.S. Senatetomorrow is going to hold its second hearing about the January 6th attackon the Capitol. And for the first time tomorrow we`re going to heartestimony from Pentagon officials about what happened that day. That`simportant because it means we might finally start to get some answers aboutone of the unsolved, unsettling mysteries about something that unfoldedduring the attack.Last week, you might remember police officials testified about theirdesperate efforts to try to get the National Guard deployed to come in tohelp while the Capitol was being overrun by the pro-Trump mob. But theirrequests for National Guard help were inexplicably slow-walked for hoursduring the attack.The acting D.C. police chief testified he was stunned by the lack ofresponse from the Pentagon while they were calling for help. We haven`theard much from the Pentagon side of this and what we have heard hasn`tbeen reassuring.For instance, there is the still unexplained fact that the Pentagonrepeatedly lied about one of the people who participated in the key phonecall to the Army that day, when D.C. officials, and police officials, werebegging the army to send in National Guard help to back up the Capitolpolice who were being overrun.On that call, on the Pentagon side, we now know, was a general namedCharlie Flynn. Charlie Flynn is the brother of disgraced Trump nationalsecurity adviser Mike Flynn who of course had called on Trump to invokemartial law and use the military to overturn the presidential electionresults.Mike Flynn`s brother, General Charlie Flynn, has denied that hisrelationship with his brother had any connection to his actions or thePentagon`s lack of a response that day while they were getting asked forhelp. But we still don`t know what his involvement was and we still don`tknow why the Pentagon initially lied about him being involved in thatdecision.So that`s something to watch tomorrow. Why didn`t the National Guard turnup when they were being begged to be there? And why did they lie about MikeFlynn`s brother having some role in the decision-making process there? Thefirst testimony from Pentagon officials about January 6th tomorrow.Today on Capitol Hill we got the first testimony from the FBI since theCapitol attack. Director Wray told senators that the FBI has no evidencethat the Capitol riot as instigated by leftists or anarchists or people whowere pretending to be Trump supporters by dressing up like them in costume,which is a popular conspiracy theory among Trump supporters, including manyRepublicans in Congress.FBI Director Christopher Wray confirmed that right wing extremistsincluding white supremacists were among those who carried out the attack.He told senators during his tenure, the FBI`s domestic terrorism case loadhas doubled to about 2,000 cases, and the number of arrests of violentwhite supremacists has nearly tripled. He also reported over 300 peoplehave now been arrested in connection with the Capitol riot and that they`restarting to build more extensive cases against some of those peopleincluding charges of planning and coordination for the Capitol attack.Director Wray did not offer a lot of detail today on the cases againstaccused Capitol attackers. But frankly, it was good to get anything at all,given how tight-lipped the Justice Department has been the last few weeks.I don`t know if it`s just that the folks at DOJ are staying quiet whilewaiting for president Biden`s attorney general nominee Merrick Garland tobe confirmed and start working. We`re expecting that Senate vote, as Imentioned earlier, any day now.But whatever the reason, the U.S. attorney for D.C., the top federalprosecutor in D.C. who has been running the federal investigation into theCapitol attack, he hasn`t held a public briefing on that investigation infive weeks.We did get some news today out of that office, though, out of the D.C. U.S.attorney`s office. The Biden administration has announced a new acting U.S.attorney to run that office, a man named Channing Phillips. He`s a veteranformer federal prosecutor who has run the D.C. U.S. attorney`s office twicebefore during two brief stints during the Obama administration.This is really a notable development for a couple of reasons. It didn`t geta ton of national attention but it deserves it. First of all, it`s unusualfor a new president to appoint a new acting U.S. attorney, right? Lastmonth, nearly all the Trump-appointed U.S. attorneys submitted theirresignations. That`s customary when you get a new administration.Generally, the top deputies in all the U.S. attorneys offices in thecompany step up on an interim basis to become acting chief while new U.S.attorneys are nominated by the new president and confirmed by the senate.But in this case, a special case, the Biden administration has put in theirown acting top federal prosecutor in D.C., somebody from outside theoffice, who has a long tenure, is widely respected in that office becauseof previous service but hasn`t been serving there now, they`re coming infrom outside to take over immediately while they go through the process ofnominating a permanent U.S. attorney for that role and all U.S. attorneysoffices around the country.So it`s an unusual move. And the D.C. U.S. attorney`s office is an unusualplace especially since Donald Trump got ahold of it. The last nominated andconfirmed U.S. attorney in D.C. was forced out by Trump Attorney GeneralBill Barr under still not fully explained circumstances. Her name wasJessie Liu. She was replaced by one of Bill Barr`s closest personal aideswho set about helping Barr and Trump turned the D.C. U.S. attorney`s officeinto a cudgel to be wielded against the president`s enemies and to help thepresident`s friends who were otherwise in trouble.That included the Justice Department overruling career prosecutors at theU.S. attorney`s office to recommend a significantly lighter sentence forTrump friend Roger Stone, an intervention that prompted four prosecutors towithdraw from the case and one of them to quit the Justice Departmentaltogether. It was also the D.C. U.S. attorney`s office under Trump thatmoved to Trump all the charges against Trump national security adviser MikeFlynn even though the office had secured two guilty pleas from Mike Flynnalready in court to those charges.All the attorneys involved in the Flynn case refused to sign the courtfiling dropping the charges. It was signed only by Bill Barr`s handpickedstaffer who he had installed as the acting U.S. attorney. Barr alsoinstalled a bunch of outside lawyers at the D.C. U.S. attorney`s office tooversee and second-guess cases that had connections to President Trump.Some of those cases were reportedly not publicly known, indicating thepossibility that investigations touching on president Trump or hisinterests were simply disappeared by Bill Barr and his goons, and hishenchmen, without them ever becoming known to the public because they madethem disappear.That was the D.C. U.S. attorney`s office under Donald Trump. That office isstill, tonight, until this new guy gets there tomorrow, being run by adifferent former Bill Barr staffer who has been an acting U.S. attorneythere since last May. That office is the office responsible for prosecutingall the January 6th Capitol attackers.But on top of that, there is a giant mess there. Years in the making now,that needs to be cleaned up. We reported last night that there arecurrently multiple investigations including two criminal investigations,one by state prosecutors in New York, one by state prosecutors in Georgia,that involve former President Trump. That`s a first in U.S. history. We`venever had a former president under criminal investigation before.But for all those investigations that are ongoing, for all of thatpotential criminal behavior by the president being investigated by multipleprosecutors, none of those prosecutors are federal prosecutors. And none ofthose are federal cases, because in the Justice Department under PresidentTrump, all that was taken care of. In some cases, by activity that really,really looked like corrupting the federal prosecutors` offices that handledcases that might touch on the president.That trash is tied onto the bumper of the Justice Department until somebodysets it on fire or cuts it off. That is a live wire that the Bidenadministration cannot leave sparking and bouncing around. That absolutelyhas to be handled.We`re about to get a new attorney general. We are about, about, to get anew acting U.S. attorney in D.C., which is an unusual move. Is that a signthat this is about to be handled?Expert advice on figuring that out, coming up. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Last year, February, "New York Times" Justice Department reporterKatie Benner wrote about serious trouble at the U.S. attorney`s office inD.C., as career prosecutors found themselves repeatedly subjected topolitical pressure on their cases from their superiors. The article quotedChanning Phillips who had run that D.C. attorney`s office during the Obamaadministration, saying that recent events under Attorney General WilliamBarr, quote, suggest undue meddling by higher ups at the JusticeDepartment.Well, now, today, the Biden administration has announced that same ChanningPhillips will be responsible in some ways for fixing the damage. KatieBenner reporting today Channing Phillips has been appointed to step intothat U.S. attorney`s office and take over starting tomorrow as acting U.S.attorney. It is an unusual move.Joining us now is "New York Times" Justice Department Katie Benner.Ms. Benner, it`s nice for you to make time for us tonight. Tanks for beinghere.KATIE BENNER, JUSTICE DEPARTMENT REPORTER, THE NEW YORK TIMES: Thanks forhaving me.MADDOW: At the start of a new administration, we`re used to a newpresident appointing new U.S. attorneys for all the U.S. attorneys` officesacross the country, or at least most of them. This is unusual, for someoneto be appointed as acting U.S. attorney immediately even before anyone hasnominated on a permanent basis.BENNER: It is indeed an unusual arrangement. The U.S. attorney`s office inDecember has been the site of so much controversy. It`s an unusualcircumstance that Michael Sherwin, the current acting U.S. attorney, wasput in place when the previous U.S. attorney had been ousted, where herreplacement had also been removed, where another man who is U.S. attorneyfrom Ohio, the department claimed that he was going to come in and serveU.S. attorney, but instead it was used some people think as like a faith --fig leaf (INAUDIBLE) to allow Michael Sherwin just to stay on because theycould say they were somebody the president intended to put in place. It wasjust unusual all round.So, bringing in somebody like Channing Phillips with a long history inD.C., a long history in the office and a long history with the police andcourts is seen as a stabilizing move.MADDOW: And you wrote today, Katie, that there`s hope that he will helprestore confidence and morale in the office that has been so roiled byaccusations of political interference. Does your reporting indicate thereis going to be some sort of effort to find out what happened in term ofundue political influence, in terms of the Justice Department essentiallyhaving misbehaved toward that prosecutor`s office in ways that weredesigned to help the president and his interests?BENNER: I think those questions are being asked internally. I thinkbringing in somebody like Channing Phillips if you want to get thoseanswers is probably a good move. He is trusted by people in the office nomatter what their political affiliation.And Channing Phillips also has deep roots here in Washington. His father,also named Channing Phillips, is a well-known civil rights leader here inD.C. He was the first African-American to be considered as a presidentialcandidate. That did not work out, but he was seriously considered for thatrole.And Phillips himself, he has the trust of people in the office. So, if youwant to get to the bottom of what happened, you would like to have somebodylike him in place.MADDOW: Katie Benner, Justice Department reporter for "The New York Time"-- it`s really helpful to have you hear here tonight. It`s also reallyhelpful to have you on this beat for the long arc of the stories, becausein some ways, you really the institutional memory of what went wrong here,you being able to follow it through as these things start to get resolvedor at least addressed, it`s a real service. Thanks, Katie.BENNER: Thanks.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)REPORTER: It`s day 15 with no running water in part of South Jackson, andbottled water has been the hardest to find. People needing to brush theirteeth, rinse off or even take medication are having to drive to multiplelocations just to get their hands on some.EBONY MYERS: I`d take medicine, and it`s hard not to have any water. Idon`t want anybody to, you know, leave without water because that`s not agood feeling.REPORTER: Myers says on a daily basis, they bring about five to sixcontainers to Forest Hill High for volunteers to fill up.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: For more than two weeks now, thousands of people in the city ofJackson, Mississippi, have been without safe drinking water. A cold snapjust over two weeks ago caused all that trouble in Texas we`ve heard somuch about it. But it also caused 96 separate leaks or breaks in watermains in Jackson.Entire city put under a boil water notice. Some people have had no runningwater at all, all this time. As of tonight, the city says they`ve been ableto fix 53 of the 96 water main breaks that they know of.But again, it has been more than two weeks. Local officials say they haveno estimate as to when the water in Jackson will be safe to drink. Theystill have no idea when normal service will be restored.More ahead tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: That is going to do it for us tonight. It`s going to be a big dayin the news tomorrow with that January 6th hearing that for the first isgoing to involve Pentagon officials. They have a lot to explain about wherethe National Guard was and why they were so delayed on January 6th. Itshould be fascinating to watch.I`ll see you again here tomorrow night.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>