Summary:MSNBC continues its coverage of Donald Trump`s second impeachmenttrial.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: That is ALL IN on this very, very eventfulWednesday."THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thanks, my friend. Thanksfor having me with you earlier in this hour in the show. You actuallyhelped me get my thoughts together a little bit about what this day waslike. I really appreciate it, my friend.HAYES: You bet.MADDOW: All right. And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.Thanks for being here.Just to get oriented as to where we were in this process right now, thisimpeachment trial of the former president and sort of what -- what welearned today as a country because of that process. What started today isup to 16 hours of the prosecutors, the House impeachment managers makingtheir factual case. And I say up to 16 hours because it appears they`re notgoing to take all the 16 hours that are allotted to them.They have been coming in sort of under time in terms of what we expected.Not just yesterday on day one when they were arguing the constitutionalityof the trial itself and finished the day by giving back more than half anhour of their time they chose not to use, but also today when they startedfactually laying out their case. They ended today after having used lessthan six hours of their allotted eight hours for the day.Now, they can`t make -- take more than eight hours in any one day, so evenif they take all eight of their hours tomorrow, they will not be using allthe hours allotted to them, they will not be using all 16 hours to maketheir case, just as they didn`t use the portion of the four hours allottedto them yesterday to make their constitutional case.And, again, what this means is just that the prosecuting side seems to benot just on track but potentially ahead of schedule, getting done what theywant to get done with time to spare.Overall the way, the schedule works is that the House impeachment managersget to lay out their case today and obviously into tonight. They will alsohave tomorrow and into tomorrow night, as I mentioned, eight total hoursavailable to them tomorrow and they could use as much or as little of thatas they want tomorrow.But no matter how early they finish tomorrow, President Trump`s defenseteam will not take over until Friday. And then once the defense team startson Friday, they also will have two eight-hour days available to them. Theywill have 16 hours total to mount in their defense no more than eight hoursin each of the two days.And I raise this now just, A, so you can think about how the next few dayswill go but also I think it helps me figure out something else out that hasotherwise been a mystery. That plan, that expectation right now about whichside is going to go on which days, that may shed a little bit of light onthis strange and otherwise sort of inexplicable thing we saw from PresidentTrump`s defense counsel when it came to scheduling the trial.We have talked about this a couple times in the last few days largelybecause I didn`t get why this happened. It was unexpected news a few daysago when former President Trump`s defense team asked for the trial scheduleto be changed. They asked for the trial to be stopped on Saturday becauseone of former President Trump`s lawyers, David Schoen, is religiouslyobservant in such a way that he doesn`t work on the Jewish Sabbath. Hedoesn`t work after sundown on Friday, or all day on Saturday. So they askedif the trial schedule could be changed so that the trial would not conveneon Saturday, the Senate acceded to that request, they said, sure, weunderstand, we will meet on Sunday instead of Saturday. Sure, go for it.What was strange is that once that request was acceded to, once they gotthe schedule changed, in response to that request they then said, okay,never mind. We actually don`t want the trial to stop on Saturday after all.It was a weird reversal.Now, of course, I don`t know for sure but one consequence of that change incourse, that weird 180, never mind, relates potentially to the way thedefense is going to lay out. I mean, if they weren`t going to hold thetrial on Saturday, that would mean President Trump`s defense team would beoffering interrupted defense. They would be able to offer their first eighthours up to eight hours of defense on Friday and then they`d be taking awhole day off on Saturday and then they`d have the second day on Sunday.That`s what would have happened had they got the trial schedule that theyrequested. I think it`s possible that once they realized that`s what they`ddone to themselves, they put a day off in the middle of their defense case,they may have realized that was not ideal. Now because they have rescindedthe request they will get two days, one after the other, we`ll have twodays from the prosecution today and tomorrow and then we`ll have twostraight days from the defense Friday and Saturday.So the reversal on them wanting the change in the schedule might make moresense along those lines. Speaking of not ideal, though, multiple newsorganizations have now reported that President Trump was deeply displeasedwith his defense team when he saw them in action yesterday, particularly --forgive me -- but the sort of Bart Simpson meets foghorn leghorn routinethat we got from the lawyer for President Trump who went first yesterday,Mr. Bruce Castor of Philadelphia.The president`s other main lawyer David Schoen is the one who`s religiouslyobservant of the Sabbath on Saturday. Even though Mr. Schoen has, on behalfof the defense team, withdrawn that request for the trial schedule tochange to take Saturdays off to accommodate his religious observance, Mr.Schoen is religiously observant and can`t work after sundown on Friday orall day Saturday. That means that David Schoen will be out of pocket Fridayafter 5:00 and all day Saturday so it may be that Castor, the guy who wassuch a disaster yesterday, that the president is reportedly so disgustedwith, it may be he has to run the whole second day of President Trump`sdefense -- Friday night and all day Saturday. That does not seem promisingfor the president`s defense given Mr. Castor`s performance on day one,particularly how apparently angry President Trump was and disappointed -- Idon`t know if he gets disappointed. How angry the president was seeing Mr.Castor`s performance on day one.So, they tried to change the schedule. They then changed it back and willget two days in a row but the second day can`t be done by David Schoen. Itwill have to be done by Castor. Trump reportedly hated Castor`s initialperformance. Their only other option is going for another people they haveat the very last minute added to their legal team.The other main lawyer on their legal team is apparently this Michael vander Veen, also a Philadelphia lawyer. Mr. Van der Veen today had topublicly deny that he recently told one of this other client that PresidentTrump was a, quote, f-ing crook.Mr. Van der Veen did defend a guy prosecuted for trying to hack into theIRS to get Trump`s tax returns. That guy, the defendant in that case, saysthe lawyer Mr. Van der Veen told him that Trump was an F-ing crook. Thatwas reported by "The Philadelphia Inquirer" today and Mr. Van der Veentoday denied he ever said such a thing in a written statement. But that`sawkward.Mr. Van der Been is also not denying the fact that he did sue PresidentTrump in the lead up to the 2020 election which is not that long ago.Presumably, Mr. Trump is not happy with either of those things, but whoknows? Van der Veen may basically be his other option besides the foghornleghorn guy for running the whole second day of his defense.We shall see. The president`s defense again will not start until the dayafter tomorrow. We`ll see the prosecution. They have their first day today.They`ll have their second day tomorrow.President Trump`s defense will start on Friday. We will see how it goes.It`s going to be fascinating either way.We have now seen two rounds of argument from the prosecution side from theimpeachment managers. Now, on day one, yesterday the substance of what theywere arguing was what Maryland congressman the lead impeachment managerJamie Raskin laid out his constitutional contention at the very beginningand the very pithy phrase that he chose for it. He made this argument thatthere`s no January exception from impeachment that allows presidents freereign to commit crimes right before they leave office.Mr. Trump`s lawyers and apparently Republican senators contend that apresident can`t be tried on impeachment charges after he left office. Ifthat was the case, then a president could simply do whatever lawless thingshe wanted to do in January in his final days in office, safe in theknowledge that the Senate wouldn`t have time to put him on trial for thosecrimes before he left office, so we could get away with any crimes hewanted.The impeachment managers argued yesterday that there`s no way the foundersintended for there to be this giant loophole this January exception withinimpeachment. Otherwise, all presidents who lost elections would essentiallybe invited to commit whatever high crimes and misdemeanors they wanted tocommit in order to try to overthrow the results of the election or deposethe incoming president who had defeated them because oh, it`s the end oftheir term, there`s no time to impeach them.Now, the vast majority of constitutional scholars agree with theprosecutors. They agree with the House impeachment managers on that point.And indeed, their argument carried the day yesterday, in a 56-44 vote atthe end of the day, by which the president -- by which the Senate decidedthat a president can be tried by the Senate for the impeachment charge laidagainst him by the House, in this case in January, even though he`s nolonger president today.But in terms of understanding where we are in this overall process, thatreally was the substantive theme of their presentation on day one. NoJanuary exception, you`re not immune from prosecution for what you did justbecause you`re gone from the presidency now. That was day one. Theirargument carried the day, that is now for the purposes of this trial asettled matter.The substantive theme of their presentation for today, day two, which ofcourse is the start of them laying out the factual basis for theirincitement charge against the president, the basic theme for most of theday today is that what happened on January 6th didn`t come out of nowhere,that this was a long plot, and therefore, the president`s culpability forinciting insurrection, for inciting the violence that happened at the U.S.capitol on January 6th was undeniably foreseeable. It was foreseeable forany reasonable person to expect that violence would result when thepresident did what he did on January 6th and in the days leading up to it.And they made that case by going back a number of months to when thepresident first started really priming his supporters to only see the 2020election results as legitimate if Trump was declared the winner of thatelection, if the loser of that election, he told them explicitly hundredsof times for months on end that they should not consider those electionresults to be legitimate. Those election results should not count.He thus sort of set the predicate for what would happen. If he lost theelection, he would try to nullify or void the election results. He wouldproclaim himself the winner. He would try to delegitimize the real resultsand his supporters should expect that if the election couldn`t be countedon to give an answer about who should be the president, then he would tryto hold on to power by some other way, by some other means than justcompeting fairly in the election.That`s what he would do, that`s what he would expect them to help him do.He laid it out over a period of months, and promised to them that that`show it would go.And part of the reason a reasonable person should have known that violencewas a likely outcome of the presidential action on January 6 is because asthe president made this case over a period of months, violence and armedconfrontation by the president`s supporters had already happened, hadalready been the consequence of his statements about the election evenbefore January 6th. And President Trump knew that. He knew that this lineof argument to his supporters had led to violence already.Rationally, it could therefore be counted on to lead to violence again. Itwould lead to more violence if he upped the stakes in making this argumentto his followers, particularly if he directed them all to react to hiscomments and physically be in the same place at the U.S. Capitol while hecontinued to incite them in this way.I mean, that`s the case that they made today, that the violence on January6th was foreseeable and therefore that incitement charge should stickbecause he knew the violence that would ensue.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)REP. JOAQUIN CASTRO (D-TX): On November 5th, he tweeted in all capitalletters as if shouting commands, quote, stop the count! Stop the fraud! Thesame day as those tweets, around 100 Trump supporters showed up in front ofa Maricopa County election center in Phoenix, some carrying rifles,literally trying to intimidate officials to stop the count just asPresident Trump had commanded.This was dangerous. It was scary. And it was a blatant act of politicalintimidation.In Philadelphia, that same day, police investigated an alleged plot toattack the city`s Pennsylvania convention center where votes were beingcounted. Police took at least one man into custody who was carrying aweapon. And this happened all over. In Atlanta, in Detroit, and inMilwaukee, his supporters used armed force to try to disrupt lawfulcounting of votes because they bought into Trump`s big lie that theelection was stolen from them.President Trump`s months of enflaming and inciting his supporters hadworked. They believed it was their duty to quite literally fight to stopthe count, so they showed up across the country to do just that.DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT: This is a fraud on the American public.This is an embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win thiselection. Frankly, we did win this election.CROWD: Stop the count! Stop the count! Stop the count! Stop the count!Stop the count! Stop the count! Stop the count! Stop the count!UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They ain`t taking it from us!CROWD: Count the votes! Count the votes! Count the votes! Count the votes!TRUMP: We were winning in all the kilo cases by a lot, actually, and thenour numbers started miraculously getting whittled away in secret.UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They will be hiding. They will pay. They will bedestroyed because America is rioting!(INAUDIBLE)CASTRO: And there it is. They had bought into his big lie and you may say,well, he didn`t know that they`d take up arms. But when he did know, whenit was all over the news, President Trump didn`t stop.DEL. STACEY PLASKETT (D-USVI): For anyone who says Donald Trump didn`tknow the violence he was inciting, I ask you to consider his supporterstried to drive a bus off the highway in the middle of the day to intimidatehis opponent`s campaign workers and his response was to tweet the video ofthe incident that had fight music, joke about it and call those individualsin that incident patriots.And once again, Donald Trump`s praise worked to incite them further.Emboldened by that praise, they remained ready to fight, ready to standback and stand by.This link is not hypothetical. Just like we saw with the Proud Boys showingup in full force on January 6th, Donald Trump`s encouragement of thisattack made sure his supporters were ready for the next one. The caravanbus attack had been organized by Trump supporter Keith Lee, leading up tothe attack on our capitol of January 6th, Mr. Lee teamed up with othersupporters to fund raise to help to bring people to Washington, D.C. forthat day.The morning of the attack, he filmed footage of the capitol, pointed outthe flimsiness of fencing and then addressed the supporters before theattack saying, quote, as soon as you all get done hearing the president,y`all get to the capitol. We need to surround this place. During theattack, he used the bullhorn to call out to the mob to rush in.He later went to the rotunda himself and then back outside to urge thecrowd to come inside. These are the people that president Trump cultivatedwho were standing by.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: This was about foreseeability. The foreseeability of the violenceon January 6th. The House impeachment managers today went back before theelection to show that the president knew, everybody knew, because ithappened in public. We knew and he knew that violence on January 6th inD.C. was foreseeable using the previous incidence of violence of thepresident`s supporters to give weight to the contention he knew what he wasgetting into. That his previous experience with supporters reactingviolent, armed confrontation in response to the president`s words, thatshows that any reasonable person and indeed President Donald j. Trump onJanuary 6 could have foreseen his words and actions that day would lead toviolence on that day.And then in what was a big reveal of the day, the managers introduced somenew evidence about the permit for the Trump rally on January 6th in D.C.,evidence that goes beyond the idea that the violence that day was justforeseeable and shows how the president actually intervened to change theplans of that day, change the plans for that day to make violence morelikely than it otherwise would have been.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)PLASKETT: On December 19, President Trump tweeted his Save the Date forJanuary 6th. He told his supporters to come to D.C. where a big protest theday billing it as wild. Just days later, Women for America First amendedtheir permit to hold the rally on January 6th pursuant to the president`sSave the Date, instead of after the inauguration.This was deliberate. Reports confirm that the president himself, PresidentTrump became directly involved with the planning of the event. Women forAmerica First had initially planned for the rally goers to remain at theellipse until the counting of the state electoral slates was completed,just like they had remained at Freedom Plaza after the second million MAGAmarch.In fact, the permit stated in no uncertain terms that the march from theellipse was not permitted. It was not until after President Trump and histeam became involved in the planning that the march from the ellipse to thecapitol came about, in direct contravention of the original permit.This was not a coincidence. None of this was. Donald Trump over many monthscultivated violence, praised it and then when he saw the violence hissupporters were capable of, he channeled it to his big, wild, historicevent. He organized January 6th with same people that had just rally,resulting in substantial violence and made absolutely sure this time theseviolent rally-goers wouldn`t just remain in place. He made sure that thoseviolent people would literally march right here to our steps, from theellipse to the capitol, to stop the steal.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Delegate Stacey Plaskett of U.S. Virgin Islands doing a phenomenaljob with her portion of the presentation today from the House impeachmentmanagers.This new evidence from the managers bolsters reporting from "The New YorkTimes" a couple weeks ago that there hadn`t been a plan for the rally goersto march on the actual capitol until the Trump White House got involved inplanning that rally and essentially made it their event. That is when theychanged the plans for the rally-goers to march from the rally grounds tothe capitol building because Trump wanted that."The New York Times" had reported that in the last couple of weeks. StaceyPlaskett today in the Senate impeachment trial with the receipts showingthat the permit, in fact, never had accommodation for that. That wassomething that the Trump White House wanted to do.President knew the supporters were primed for violence, the words hadspurred them to violence multiple times. He arranged this January 6th rallyto be a march on the Capitol. The impeachment managers today essentiallydared senators to look at the evidence and try to believe, try to maintainthat Donald Trump didn`t know what he was inciting that day.I think the most powerful part of the day though came from the Housemanager Stacey Plaskett who you just saw and Congressman Swalwell ofCalifornia. They`re both experienced lawyers, they`re both excellentspeakers, and the lead impeachment manager Jamie Raskin left it to Plaskettand Swalwell today to do in painstaking work of recreating minute by minutereally what the attack was, once it happened, what the character of it was,in ways we have never seen before.And I will be honest with you. There is no way to sum this up and describeit the way to do it justice. While this is happening live, I sent notes toall the producers who work on this show, you guys, how on earth do wesummarize this? I sent notes to other hosts on network, I sent notes toexecutives on this network and trust me I never ask executives aboutanything, but I felt I needed help and advice. How do we summarizesomething like this?I don`t think we can sort of, you know, give it a thumbnail summary in away that fully captures what they did. I`m very happy to tell you thatMSNBC is going to play the bulk of it midnight eastern tonight, if youweren`t able to see it live today. You will definitely want to see thattonight at midnight.But what they presented in that part of the president`s impeachment trialtoday was essentially a visual autopsy of how it happened, how the pro-Trump mob broke into the capitol, what they did once they were inside, theviolence committed toward law enforcement, much of which we had never seenbefore, honestly. We`ve seen accounts of police officers` injuries in FBIindictments and some of the rioters. We`ve heard from police officer unionshow many officers were injured and hospitalized. But we didn`t really seethe combat that police officers were in with the president`s mob for hours,in a way that we saw it today.We also had not truly seen before today how close we came to a masscasualty event at the U.S. capitol. We have heard members of Congress andthe Senate express their belief they were close to being killed that day.Today, we saw in detail what they meant by that, and that they were right.House managers spent a better part of two hours to lay out the visualevidence of the mob that the president incited at the capitol. And some ofthat footage was familiar to us. The man who was holstering that 950,000volt stun gun mounted on a hiking staff sitting at Nancy Pelosi`s desk.Rioters who were chanting "hang Mike Pence" at the Capitol as theyliterally hunted for and tried to find Vice President Pence.Police officer getting crushed by protesters, in a doorway screaming forhelp and screaming in pain.But the impeachment managers in addition to some of that footage that wehad seen, they also presented new footage, new audio that was brand new tothe public. The House managers, for example, played never before heardaudio communications between law enforcement officials who were trying todefend the capitol that day. Now, I`m going to play a little bit of thatand just for context here, when you hear the officers here calling theacronym DSO, we think that means they`re calling domestic securityoperations. I didn`t know what that meant in this context before today."The Washington Post" is explaining that when you hear the officersreference DSO, domestic security operations, what it probably means they`recalling for help from the part of the police department that handleschemical munitions like tear gas and CS gas, because that`s the kind ofhelp they were asking for to deal with the on-rushing mob when they wereoverrun and being injured by the dozens. They`re calling DSO, DSO, meaning,get us those kind of officers with that kind of equipment here immediately.You will also hear an officer say 10-33. I repeat 10-33, west front of theCapitol. What that means is 10-33 means emergency. That`s the officersaying there`s an emergency at the west front of the capitol, officers inneed of immediate assistance.Listen.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)DISPATCH: Intel 1, be advised, you`ve got a group of about 50 charging upthe Hill on the left front. I just know that it`s at the stairs. They`reapproaching the wall now.OFFICER: They`re starting to dismantle their reviewing stand. They`rethrowing metal poles at us.OFFICER: Cruiser 50, give me DSO up here now! DSO! Multiple lawenforcement injuries. DSO, get up here.OFFICER: We need some reinforcements up here now. They`re starting to pullthe gates down. They`re throwing metal poles at us.OFFICER: We just had an explosion go on up here. I don`t know if they`refireworks or what, but they`re starting to throw explosions, fireworksmaterial.OFFICER: Let`s go, we need units outside on the terrace ASAP. We needunits. We`re surrounded.OFIFCER: Cruiser 50, they`ve breached the scaffold. Let Capitol know theyhave breached the scaffolds. They are behind our lines.OFFICER: Cruiser 50, I copy. We`re still taking rocks, bottles and piecesof the flag and metal pole! Cruiser 50, the crowd is using munitionsagainst us. They have bear spray in the crowd. Bear spray in the crowd.OFFICER: Cruiser 50, we lost the line! We`ve lost the line. All MPD, pullback. All MPD, pull back up to the upper deck! All MPD, pull back to theupper deck ASAP. All MPD, come back to the upper deck! Upper deck.Cruiser 50. We`re flanked, 10-33. I repeat, 10-33 west front of thecapitol. We have been flanked and we`ve lost the line.(END AUDIO CLIP)MADDOW: We`ve lost the line. That`s what they say there. We`ve lost theline.Never before heard police communications as they were attacked, overrun,injured, one killed. House managers showed internal security footage takenby cameras inside the capitol. None was publicly seen before. Securitycameras capturing rioters breaking down the front doors of the capitolbuilding, using Trump flags to bust the glass and get inside.Another security camera showing the rioters when they located the door thatled to the house floor. The members of Congress were gathered. You can seeone rioter waving on the rest of the mob as they stream toward that doorleading to the House floor.In this video, you can see the rioters essentially brawling engaging inwhat looks like hand to hand combat with police officers outside the metaldetectors that you have to pass through to get into the capitol complex.This is footage from a police officer`s body camera from the moment he wasbeing dragged down the capitol steps and pummeled and stomped by the pro-Trump mob.We also got more insight from this new security footage about what happenedto lawmakers and their staff members that day trying to escape the Trumpmob. This is a terrifying moment showing Republican Senator Mitt Romney,it`s mistakenly him, who was unknowingly walking toward the mob. Theofficer there runs toward him at full tilt. That`s Eugene Goodman, the manwho may have saved the senate. He warns Mitt Romney there and pulls him inthe other direction. To prevent Romney from walking directly into the pathof the mob.House managers showed this new security footage of former Vice PresidentMike Pence being evacuated. And you can see on the diagram of the capitolon the lower left side of the screen the House managers added there to showjust how close to the mob Vice President Pence was there when he was beingevacuated.House manager Eric Swalwell actually played this video twice. It showsmultiple U.S. senators being evacuated down a hallway while police officersbeyond them basically blocked the sight of the senators with their bodies.Mob was on the far end of that corridor. The police officers put themselvesbetween the senators and the mob. And the senators ran past to safety.There`s reporting out of the chamber today that senators were seen pointingat that video recognizing themselves and colleagues as they were runningdown the corridor steps away from where the police were holding back themob. They had never seen the footage either.This footage shows how Senator Chuck Schumer almost walked directly intothe mob that day. House managers say he came within yards of the riotersand had to turn around. Came up the ramp and they went very quickly backdown that ramp his security detail turned him around and ended up shuttingthe doors with their bodies to keep him safe.Security footage also captured a group of Speaker Nancy Pelosi`s staffmembers running into a conference room and barricading themselves behindtwo doors to keep safe and then that camera captured a throng of riotersdown the hallway outside that very door trying to bang down the doors atthat moment they were shelter behind.Here`s they are watching the video. They hadn`t seen it before today. Noneof us. Three holding hands as they watched.Whatever else happens here, however they vote and however this resolvespolitically no matter what we hear from the president`s defense on Fridayand Saturday, the impeachment managers have given us a history that we didnot have before. A factual basis for understanding what happened here tostand up against the revisionism and the minimizing of this attack that`salready happening full tilt on the right and particularly in conservativemedia. That is what they did today, no matter the consequence. In terms ofthe political fallout and the ultimate vote.What they did today is indelible in terms of our history as a country. Butthe trial continues.We will be talking with senators who were in the room for it today when wecome back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)REP. DAVID CICILLINE (D-RI): These attackers stood right where you are.They went on that rostrum. They rifled but through your desks and theydesecrated this place and literally the president sat delighted, doingnothing to help us, calling one of you to pressure you to stop thecertification. It can`t be that the commander in chief can incite alawless, bloody insurrection and then utterly fail in his duty ascommander-in-chief to defend us from the attack, to defend our lawenforcement officers from that attack and just get away with it. DonaldTrump abdicated his duty to us all.We have to make this right. And you can make it right.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: House impeachment manager, Congressman David Cicilline of RhodeIsland, today with the direct appeal to the senators in that chamber who,of course, are both jurors and witnesses to the crime in this impeachmenttrial.Joining us now is Delaware Senator Chris Coons.Senator Coons, I really appreciate you making time to be here with ustonight. I will tell you it was absolutely gut wrenching at home watchingthe proceedings today, really interested to hear from you what it was liketoday in the room.SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE): Rachel, it was a long and a very hard day. Youhave just shown some of the clips that were the most compelling. Themoments where senators, myself included, for the very first time saw avideo clip of us running down the hallway and realized that we were just 50feet away from an angry mob.That clip you showed of Senator Mitt Romney walking directly towards themob and being turned around by Officer Goodman. I think for a lot of ustoday was the first time we really put it altogether and the House managersdid an amazing job of giving us the timeline, the order, the clarity, theforcefulness of these moments. This is a day we won`t forget. We shouldn`tforget.MADDOW: Are there conversations happening among senators? I have toimagine -- I thought I recognized you in that footage that we all saw forthe first time ushered down that corridor and I have to imagine when youand your colleagues are seeing something for the first time recognizingthat you all were in a circumstance that you didn`t necessarily appreciatebefore today that it may make you want to talk with them about what you areseeing and what you are newly understanding.Are those conversations happening amongst senators?COONS: I`ve had some very forceful conversations with my Democraticcolleagues. There`s not been a lot of conversation across the aisle today,particularly this afternoon and evening. Look, honestly, I have a hardtime, Rachel, understanding how anyone could watch what we have seen thelast two days and not vote to convict President Trump.MADDOW: The objection that I saw today from Senator Cruz who has his ownstory within this drama was that he didn`t feel that the president`sactions would rise to the level of being criminally convicted of incitementand that that was reason enough to not convict him in a court ofimpeachment in the U.S. Senate. What`s your reaction to that?COONS: Well, Senator Cruz is a clever lawyer but I don`t see the relevancebecause the Constitution gave us the obligation as senators to use this oneimportant constitutional mechanism for accountability for a president whoutterly abdicated an oath and just denied the responsibilities that apresident has and I think as he just showed Congressman Cicilline laid itout so clearly. President Trump did nothing to help the members of theCongress, to help his own vice president when an angry mob was chanting"hang Mike Pence", and the idea that maybe if he were in a criminal courtof law, there`s a higher standard and not convicted I think is a clever wayof avoiding accountability for delivering consequences.That`s why we`re here. We are here adds a court of impeachment. PresidentTrump is impeached while he was president and I think it`s undeniable underthe language of the constitution. This is our job. We should do it.MADDOW: Delaware U.S. Senator Chris Coons -- senator, thank you for makingtime tonight. I know this is an emotional and busy time.COONS: Thank you.MADDOW: Thanks. Thank you.All right. Let`s bring the conversation a friend and Minnesota Senator AmyKlobuchar who was also in the room today and who I believe I recognized inthat same footage being ushered down the corridor not more than 50 or 60feet from the mob on the other side of the capitol police officers.Senator Klobuchar, I`m really glad you could make time to be here tonight.SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): Thank you, Rachel. Thank you.MADDOW: I have to ask, was that -- did you learn things today about theperil that you yourself and your staff were at that you didn`t know beforeseeing some of that footage today?KLOBUCHAR: Well, I had staff because I was leaving the -- Ted Cruzactually to uphold the electoral college votes and I had just made the caseafter he spoke when all this happened so I had -- in a room right wherethey entered in a closet with of course two of them for two hours and heardit from their perspective and I actually didn`t think as (INAUDIBLE) aboutthe senators. We were protected by the police.It`s the police that I think people saw strikingly today, the officersshrieking trying to defend our democracy, the story of the police officerwho went into the rotunda all done after having the rioters use the N-wordagainst him 15 times and turn to another black officer and said, is thisAmerica? Those officers, they`re the ones that were on the front lineprotecting us.To think that one of them died because of his wounds -- and to thinkanother two of them committed suicide shortly after this happened I thinkis pretty sobering to think of what they went through and the fact thatPresident Trump would not even send a tweet to defend our democracy whilethat officer was shrieking in pain at the door trying to defend it.MADDOW: I was struck by the argument, the close of tonight`s presentationthat President Trump never called in the National Guard, never did anythingto give any backup to the officers as they were being overrun and so manyof them were being injured and one of them was killed. That just starkstatement that there`s no evidence that even though the national guard waseventually called in, no evidence that President Trump had anything to dowith that.Also, the stark statement and maybe this is a simple thing, with the starkstatement earlier in the day that President Trump never once on the day ofthe attack condemned the violence at the capitol. He ultimately did thenext day, but while it was under way on January 6th he didn`t condemn itand just that, that stark presentation about what the president didn`t doleft me feeling shook today at the end of this.KLOBUCHAR: It is not just what he did and we all know that. The tweetsleading up to it, the assault on the election officials in the monthbefore, it is what he didn`t do. I thought that was the compelling case,the strongest evidence, that it took hours to send a tweet and he`s stillcommending them, calling them patriots, saying he loved them.His own family members asking him to do something. Governor Christiepleading with him to do something. Kevin McCarthy going on Fox News andsaying this has to stop. All the people that called the National Guard,including his own vice president, the National Guard, the head of thenational guard published who called him and it wasn`t Donald Trump.So when you go through all of that, it just simply is, to me, it was enoughby what he said when he incited the rioters, told them to march downPennsylvania Avenue. But the final piece of evidence I don`t think you needmore than that is that he did nothing to really stop it, which Republicanscrying for him to do it over and over again.MADDOW: Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar -- again, thank you for makingtime tonight. I know this is a difficult and sort of at least just watchingat home, it`s a gut wrenching time, having you with us tonight is a realblessing to have you with us tonight. Thanks.KLOBUCHAR: Rachel, thank you.MADDOW: All right. We have got much more to come tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)REP. MADELEINE DEAN (D-PA): One of President Trump`s key defenses focusedon what he said for a few seconds, 15 minutes into the speech.DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT: I know that everyone here will soon bemarching over to the capitol building, to peacefully and patriotically makeyour voices heard.DEAN: In a speech spanning almost 11,000 words, yes, we did check, thatwas the one time, the only time President Trump used the word "peaceful" orany suggestion of nonviolence.The implication of the president`s tweets, the rally and the speeches wereclear. President Trump used the word "fight" or "fighting," 20 times,including telling the crowd the needed to fight like hell to save ourdemocracy. We know how the crowd responded to Donald Trump`s words and weknow how they responded to his speech.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Eleven thousand words in that speech. Former President Trump saidthe word "peaceful" once in those 11,000 words. If you`re counting, he toldthe same crowd 20 times in that speech that they needed to fight.Jennifer Jacobs at "Bloomberg News" reporting tonight when the formerpresident`s defense lawyers have had their turn at bat, or are going tohave their turn at bat, excuse me, they tend to lean heavily on his singleuse of that phrase, "peacefully and patriotically" in his January 6thspeech.His lawyers, quote, are also assembling more a dozen videos with what theyhope will be a stronger argument after the rambling presentation byattorney Bruce Castor during the first day of his impeachment trial, aperformance that was widely panned.In addition to that news, we also know in part from Jennifer Jacobs`reporting, that former President Trump has been unhappy with his defenseteam`s performance thus far.Joining us now is Jennifer Jacobs, senior White House reporter at BloombergNews.Ms. Jacob, it`s great to see you. Thanks very much for making time to behere.JENNIFER JACOBS, SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER, BLOOMBERG NEWS: Thanks,Rachel.MADDOW: So, a significant swath of the country, I think it`s fair to say,is pretty riveted by the impeachment managers` presentation their side ofthe argument. What have you been able to report so far about how are thingsgoing on the other side and how does the president feel about his defenseand how it`s shaping up?JACOBS: Well, I can tell you, they are riveted as well. I know for a fact,just from talking to my sources today, that his allies, the president andhis allies have been watching the live coverage. Trump is, of course,watching from his private quarters at Mar-a-Lago. He has a very small crewaround him, including just a few advisers, including Dan Scavino and BrianJack, who is down there, I know.He has been watching. I know he has grown increasingly aggravated, asthings have gone on. Of course, today was all about the house managersbuilding their case against Trump, and there was less of a focus, ofcourse, on the president`s defense. And I know that he had someconversations today about wanting more of his allies to be appearing ontelevision. So, that`s one of the things that has been frustrating him.There`s also some concerns in the inner circle, I`ve been told, about whoDemocrats go after next. Is there a possibility that they would go aftersome of the people who were around the president on January 6th, some ofthe lower-tier aides who helped organize that rally on the ellipse?So, there`s various concerns. The president is planning out their strategyfor Friday, for their defense, and very much planning out what that`s goingto look like.MADDOW: It sounds like they may have some concern -- maybe I`m readinginto this, but it sounds like there`s this open question as to whether ornot witnesses will be called. It sounds like if they`re worried aboutpeople around the president potentially being dragged into this, it soundslike they would have a strong preference that witnesses not be called, ifthe House managers indeed decide to go that route.JACOBS: I think part of the concern is what happens after the impeachmenttrial wraps up, whether Democrats start taking action or calling in some ofthose other Trump aides and allies. But I`ve been told multiple times, andI keep asking this, is there any chance at all that the former presidentcomes up to D.C. to be a witness, and I`ve been told repeatedly no, that isnot going to happen.MADDOW: What about the potential vote here? We`ve seen lots of reportingthat the Republicans in general, that President Trump perhaps specificallyis confident that there will be a vote to acquit at the end because you`renot going to get 17 Republicans. On the other hand, we got SenatorMcConnell says a vote to convict Trump will be seen as a vote ofconscience, it will not be a whipped vote. They don`t expect people to voteto not go ahead with the trial are not expected to necessarily acquit inthe end.Are President Trump and his crew there at all concerned about theRepublican votes?JACOBS: Well, I was told -- I`ve been asking his team and people around,people familiar with it what they`re planning on arguing, and how they`regoing to -- they realize they had a very bad day on their opening day. So,they`ve been trying to improve that. They`ve got a bunch of videos plan.Part of their strategy, as you mentioned, is to keep repeating that phraseduring he did during the January 6th, says something about peacefully andpatriotically gatherings, they`re really going to lean hard on that. Theyhave some arguments, I`m told, arguing that a judge can`t be a juror at thesame time, like the presiding officer, Senator Patrick Leahy, is doing.They`ve got other arguments lined up about constitutional standing. I don`tthink that they`re terribly concerned. In fact, I know that people aroundthe president keep reassuring him, don`t worry. There won`t be enoughRepublicans to convict. They do not think that there will be, you know, aconviction.I was told today that they are pretty certain they didn`t hear it directlyfrom senator McConnell but they doubt senator McConnell would vote toconvict.So, as Trump grows more and more frustrated, I know people around him havebeen trying to reassure him, despite how everything is going, just wait forthe eventual outcome, which is going to be an acquittal.MADDOW: Jennifer Jacobs, senior White House reporter at "Bloomberg News",just doing phenomenal work for a long time, but particularly in recentweeks and months. Jennifer, thanks for being with us tonight. I reallyappreciate it.JACOBS: Thank you.MADDOW: All right. So, big night here at MSNBC. I want to let you know, wewill be live until 2:00 a.m. tonight.We`ve still got lots to come. Stay with us. We`ll be right back.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: The House impeachment managers made their case for just under sixhours today. They had up to eight hours available to them. They didn`t takeall of their time. They`ll have that eight-hour window available to themagain tomorrow. They will start their case mid-day, but we`ll see howtomorrow goes.See you again tomorrow night.Now it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>