Summary:Senator Amy Klobuchar, chair of the Rules Committee in the U.S.Senate is interviewed. Senator Gary Peters of Michigan, chairman of theHomeland Security and Government Affairs Committee is interviewed.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: We can do it. Hang in there. Loyce Pace, thankyou so much for making time. Come on back.That is ALL IN for this evening."THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thank you, my friend. Muchappreciated.Thanks to you at home for joining this hour.A lot to get to this hour after what has been a really busy day inWashington. Lots of movement on President Biden`s cabinet nominees today,on the COVID relief effort. One of those days where it seems like you`retrying to watch a dozen different story lines at once.But the event of the day, at the U.S. Capitol, which is still underlockdown, surrounded by thousands of National Guard troops in the wake ofthe January 6th attack on the Capitol, today was the first investigation.Today was the first congressional hearing into what happened that day. Whatwent wrong at the Capitol on January 6th that allowed the pro-Trump violentmob to storm the Capitol building, interrupt the certification of theelection, and come within just steps of the lawmakers who are in thebuilding that day, whose blood the mob was crowing for.Today, two Senate committees took testimony from the officials in charge ofthe Capitol security that day. I should tell you, we`re going to speak tothe chairs of both of those committees this hour. The witnesses at today`shearing were the acting chief of the D.C. Metropolitan Police who took overthat job just four days before the January 6th attack. As well as threeofficials who resigned in the immediate aftermath of the attack. The formerhead of the Capitol police, the former Senate sergeant at arms, the formerHouse sergeant at arms.But it was interesting and it was sort of a surprise the way it unfolded.Before senators started questioning those announced witnesses, the chair ofthe Rules Committee, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota who is going tojoin us in just a moment, she announced what was in fact a surprise guest.Senator Klobuchar said the committees thought it was important to hear fromsomeone who was on the front lines, on the violent front lines defendingthe Capitol on January 6th. She introduced Captain Carneysha Mendoza, amember of the U.S. Capitol Police for 19 years. Prior to that, she was anactive duty soldier in the U.S. Army.Captain Mendoza gave a riveting and terrifying account of her day at workon January 6th.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)CAPT. CARNEYSHA MENDOZA, U.S. CAPITOL POLICE: It was approximately 1:30 inthe afternoon. I was home eating with my 10-year-old, spending time withhim before what I knew would be a long day. A fellow captain contacted meand said things were bad and I needed to respond. I literally droppedeverything to respond to work that day, early.I arrived within 15 minutes and I contacted dispatch to ask her what activescenes we had. I was advised things were pretty bad. I asked whereassistance was needed and was advised of six active scenes. There was anexplosive device at the Democratic National Committee building, a secondexplosive device at the Republican National Committee building. And largehostile groups at different locations outside the Capitol building.I made my way through the crowd by yelling and pushing people out of my wayuntil I saw Capitol police civil disturbance units in riot gear in thehallway. They were holding the hallway to keep rioters from penetratingdeeper into the building. I immediately jumped in line with them to assistwithholding the crowd of rioters. At some point my right arm got wedgedbetween rioters and the railing along the wall. A sergeant pulled my rightarm free. Had he not, I`m certain it would have been broken.Shortly after that, an officer was pushed and fell to the floor. I assistedthe officer to a safer location and got back in line. At some point, thecrowd breached the line officers worked so hard to maintain. Civildisturbance units began to redeploy to keep rioters from accessingdifferent areas of the building. I proceeded to the rotunda where I noticeda heavy smoke-like residue and smelled what I believed to be military gradeCS gas, a familiar smell. It was mixed with fire extinguisher smell byrioters.The rioters continued to deploy CS into the rotunda. Officers received alot of gas exposure which is worse inside the building than outside becausethere`s no where for it to go. I received chemical burns to my face thathave not healed to this day.I witnessed officers being knocked to the ground and hit with variousobjects thrown by rioters. I was unable to determine exactly what thoseobjects were. I immediately assumed command in the rotunda and called foradditional assets.Officers began to push the crowd out the door. After a couple hours,officers cleared the rotunda but had to physically hold the door closedbecause it had been broken by the rioters. Officers begged me for relief asthey were unsure how long they could physically hold the door closed withthe crowd continually banging on the outside of the door attempting to gainreentry.Eventually, officers were able to secure the door with furniture and otherobjects. The night of January 7th into the very early morning hours of mybirthday, January 8th, I spent at the hospital comforting the family of ourfallen officer and met with the medical examiner`s office prior to workingfellow officers to facilitate a motorcade to transport Officer Sicknickfrom the hospital.Of the multitude of events I`ve worked in my nearly 19 years in thedepartment, this was by far the worst of the worst.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: This was by far the worst of the worst. U.S. Capitol policecaptain, speaking today again, as I mentioned, this was an unannouncedguest. A surprise witness at today`s hearing. Captain Carneysha Mendoza, asshe said there, a 19-year veteran of the U.S. Capitol Police.But that is how today`s hearing kicked off, searing testimony from thatsenior Capitol Police officer on the scene on January 6, talking aboutspending time with the family of an officer killed in the attack, talkingabout her officers coming to her as a commander on the scene as they triedto hold broken doors shut to keep the crowd at bay.That testimony formed the set, the back drop for today`s hearing. Rememberhow bad this thing was, worst of the worst. And then with thatunderstanding fresh in our minds, let us try to get to the bottom of how ithappened.Here`s one theory of what happened that day. You might think the attack onthe Capitol was carried out by supporters of former President Trump. Youmight think that because they carried giant flags that said Trump andbecause they chanted things like "fight for Trump" as they stormed theCapitol after a rally in which they were incited to do so by PresidentTrump.You might think that white supremacists and other extremist groups becausemembers of those groups have been arrested and charged in the ensuing weekssince the attack, and also because all the witnesses at today`s hearing,one after another, all, uniformly confirmed that white supremacist andextremist groups were among those that attacked the Capitol.But Republican Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin had a wildly different taketoday. Senator Johnson used his few minutes of question time today to musealoud and read a right wing blog post into the Senate record about how thewhole Capitol attack on January 6th was actually carried out by anti-Trumpprotesters.You see, all the people who committed all the violence that day, they werefaking being Trump supporters when they really weren`t. It was secretlyanti-Trump people who dressed up as pro Trump people. Like an elaborateholiday pageant.Yes. Everything was all very festive, as Senator Johnson described it,until these anti-Trump provocateurs in costume started to riot.This is not like a guy heckling the hearing today. Ron Johnson was actuallythe chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, when Republicans run theSenate. They made him chairman of Homeland Security. Well, gee, gosh, Idon`t know, have you considered that maybe this whole thing was a clevercostumed stunt by President Trump`s opponents? Have you considered that? Iread a blog about it once on the tweeter.The Democrats now are on the Senate. Amy Klobuchar runs the RulesCommittee. She was one of those running the hearing today. She said thislater after the close of the hearing, pointedly. She said, quote: As ourhearing concludes, I want to make one thing clear: provocateurs did notstorm the Capitol. They were not fake Trump protesters. The mood on January6th was not festive. That is disinformation.Disinformation that was spread by Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin at thishearing.And while Senator Johnson used his time on spread that disinformation, hissuccessor, his Democratic successor, who is the new chair of HomelandSecurity, Michigan Senator Gary Peters, will also join us tonight. He spenthis day today trying to run, you can, an actual hearing with questions anduseful information that advances our understanding of what happened on the6th.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)SEN. GARY PETERS (D-MI): What did you see that leads you to believe thatthis was a coordinated attack?STEVEN SUND, FORMER U.S. CAPITOL POLICE CHIEF: One, these people camespecifically with equipment you bring climbing gear to a demonstration, youbring explosives, you bring chemicals such as what Captain Mendoza talkedabout. You`re coming prepared.The fact the group that attacked our west front 20 minutes, approximately20 minutes before the event at the ellipse ended which means they wereplanning on our agency not being at full strength, you know, watching theother events say, hey, that event is ending. OK, everybody get on post.They`re going to be marching our way, knowing we may not be at fullstrength at that time.And then also the fact that we were dealing with two pipe bombs that werespecifically set right off the edge of our perimeter to what I suspect drawresources away. I think there was a significant coordination with thisattack.PETERS: Clearly here, we got a coordinated attack. All of you saw thisimmediately. I can imagine the conversations with the National Guard.And, Chief, you were stunned by the tepid response. Can you clarify thatand tell us how the conversations went?ROBERT CONTEE, METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPOT. ACTING CHIEF: There was a phonecall that was convening between several officials. Chief Sund was on thecall, literally pleading. There were several army officials on the call. Idon`t know them all by name.Several officials from district government were on the seasonable. ChiefSund was pleading for the deployment of the National Guard. In response tothat, there was not an immediate yes of the National Guard is responding,yes, the National Guard is on the way, yes, the National Guard are beingrestaged from traffic posts to respond.The response was more asking about the plan, what was the plan for theNational Guard. The response was more focused on, in addition to the plan,the optics, about how this looks with boots on the ground on the Capitol.And my response to that was simply, I was just stunned. I have officers outthere literally fighting for their lives. We`re kind of going through whatseems like an exercise to check the boxes and it was not an immediateresponse.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: One of the things still unclear, all these weeks after the Capitolattack, why there was this apparently lack of urgency at the Pentagon thatday. Why the Pentagon seemed to not get what they were being asked to doand why. Why didn`t they immediately respond when they got these urgentcalls about the need for the National Guard to come supplant the defense ofthe Capitol while the attack was underway, while the violence was in factheading toward its apex.I mean, this is a call taking place at the 2:00 hour as the Capitol isbeing overrun. They`re being begged to send in the National Guard. Theresponse as the chief just said, was not an immediate yes. Yes, theNational Guard is responding. Yes, the National Guard is on the way.I mean, one thing that did not come up in today`s hearing but has still notbeen explained about that desperate phone call the D.C. police described,that the Pentagon initially lied about one of the military officers who wason that call. The "Washington Post" reporting last month that after Trump`sdisgraced national security adviser Mike Flynn told President Trump heshould use military force and martial law to seize power despite theelection results, Mike Flynn`s brother was at the Pentagon and on thatcall, the call where the Pentagon allegedly slow walked approving deployingthe National Guard.Mike Flynn`s brother, Lieutenant General Charles Flynn, has denied that hisrelationship with his brother was any sort of factor in the response to theCapitol attack. But the army hand explained why they repeatedly lied whenthey insisted multiple times that General Flynn`s brother had nothing to dowith it. That he was not on the call when in fact he was.So to have one of the central figures in the president`s electionconspiracy, and the QAnon conspiracy, one of the central figures promotingthe disaster that was January 6th, to have his brother involved in theinexplicable Pentagon decision on January 6th to not send the NationalGuard to help the overrun Capitol police, that seems like something weshould learn more about. We need to learn a lot more about the Pentagon`slack of a response when they were being begged to respond in real-time.At the end of today`s hearing, Senator Klobuchar, chair of the rulescommittee, summed up a number of things we should be learning. How changesare approved when they need resources, better intelligence sharing betweenagencies, some security changes are needed at the Capitol building, the useof the National Guard needs to be examined, how approval is made oncetroops are requested.She summed up what happened today at this hearing, it was very helpfulafter this dense long hearing, especially because it is the first one thatlooks at what happened January 6th. But then as soon as the hearing wasover, Senator Klobuchar announced there will be another hearing next week,a second one. And that one is going to include Pentagon officials to get tothe bottom of among other things, what happened. When the call came in forthe National Guard and the answer was basically, no, it was de facto no forhours.So today`s hearing was finally something and it was something. It was alsojust the beginning.Joining us now is Senator Amy Klobuchar, who is the chair of the RulesCommittee in the United States Senate. One of the two committees thatoversaw today`s hearing.Senator Klobuchar, I know it`s been a really long day. Thanks for beinghere tonight.SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): -- thanks for including Captain Mendoza`stestimony at the beginning. That was so important.MADDOW: I can`t hear her.KLOBUCHAR: Okay. Hold on.MADDOW: Now I`m lost in space and nobody can hear me at all. All right.This is one of those moments when I`m going to call an audible. We aregoing to ask Senator Klobuchar to stand by. These are our technicaldifficulties, I believe. Not hers.We`re going to take a quick break. We`ll be right back with Senator AmyKlobuchar, also Senator Peters, the two senators who chaired this hearingtoday on the attack on January 6th.We`ll be right back.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: I believe that we have tracked down, tackled and tickled to deathour technical gremlins and that will mean I may be able to hear Senator AmyKlobuchar, the chair of the Senate Rules Committee when we bring her on. Ifnot, I`m out of here. Forget it.Senator Klobuchar, thank you so much for your patience. I really appreciateit.KLOBUCHAR: No problem at all. Very good.I was just saying earlier, I was so glad --MADDOW: Yeah.KLOBUCHAR: -- Captain Mendoza`s testimony, which is so important to thestory, all the front line officers.But, you know, your point is what I really wanted to stress was that weneed solutions here. You can just throw popcorn at the screen all you wantat these hearings, but if we don`t get solutions out of it, we reallyhaven`t accomplished anything.And despite Ron Johnson`s craziness and despite his literally refusal tobelieve what everyone knows, that there was an armed insurrection at theCapitol, most of the senators treated the witnesses with respect. Theyasked their questions.And Gary Peters, who I know you`re going to hear from today and I bothdecided we want this to be a bipartisan constructive hearing and it was.MADDOW: Senator, one of the things that I found, not baffling but sort ofincreasingly frustrating, was the ongoing discussions and in some cases,contentious discussions, about who had what intelligence in advance ofJanuary 6th, and to what degree there were specific warning that`s thiscould potentially be a violent event.I know there is a lot to sort out but I thought you bottom lined it verywell by saying, listen, whatever exactly happened here between differentagencies, and between different intelligence silos here and things fallingin between groups and people not finding out what they`re supposed to findout, the bottom line here is that this is not a system set up to anticipateand handle a crisis. And I do feel like we`re splitting hairs here in termsof how violent everybody knew things were going to be.Looking at public source intelligence, I think a lot of people paying anyamount of attention thought there would be any chance of violence. Are notwe getting too bogged down into who got what report when?KLOBUCHAR: -- questions from senators and I think we want to get the factsso we can improve the process.The two main things, January 3rd, they had an internal report with theCapitol police that they should have listened to that reported thousands ofpeople were descending on Washington. And then the big one was January 5th,the night before, FBI emails from the Norfolk office, they e-mailed areport about that there`s evidence that there are people showing up whowant to go to war, who want to invade the Capitol.And we just find out today that the chief only found out about it in thelast few days, that the sergeant at arms had not seen it. But you can`tjust press send at night. They also on their end had to have a way to seethese reports so that`s concerning.Here are the things we talked about. One, better process on theintelligence, obviously. But two, as you point out, why did the NationalGuard take so long, will be our number one question at the Department ofDefense at our hearing next week.The third thing is that this police chief reports to what is called aCapitol Police Board which is three people, two of whom are the sergeant atarms. So I want you to picture, they`re there guarding their member, tryingto get them on secure locations. The police chief calls them because of theprocess in place to see if he can call in the National Guard. I thinkanyone that heard that, Republican, Democrat, anyone watching knows we haveto change that process.So there are some concrete things we can do in addition to figuring out howwe use the National Guard going forward. They were at the Capitol for yearsafter 9/11 in a smart way, how we change the security while stillpreserving the public nature of the Capitol.When we are through this pandemic, Rachel, we want student groups to comeand we want veterans groups and people to visit the Capitol so we cannotlose the public nature of the Capitol. But it`s not going to be business asusual when it comes to the security.MADDOW: I know that decision making process at the Pentagon, the call withrequest for help from the National Guard, and the muddled and slow responseto that, as you mentioned, is going to be the subject of the next hearingthat you are going to convene on this right away next week. And I`m reallyglad to hear that.I have to ask, in terms of the investigation that you all have done thusfar, what you`ve learned, including at today`s hearing, is there anyindication, is there any reason to worry that there may have beenessentially influence on the Pentagon side in terms of slowing down theresponse? In terms of not allowing National Guard troops to come in andback stop the police who are getting so overrun?Was there any effort to try to let this riot run its course in a way thatis going to be not just a tragedy but a scandal?KLOBUCHAR: I don`t know the answer to that question. I hope that would notbe true. We do know, I think it was Mitch McConnell who called PresidentTrump`s actions that day disgraceful and a dereliction of duty.We know that he wasn`t making those calls to bring the National Guard in.It was Vice President Pence, that it was the leaders of Congress on bothsides of the aisle. And so, we have no idea what actually went into thatdelay.One thing I would add is if you want to get the National Guard deployed,some of this should have also occurred the night before, the day beforethat, and that also was messed up on many sides.So there are so many things that we can do and we all saw the horror aspointed out by Jamie Raskin and the House managers. That was a big part ofthe historical record, that impeachment hearing. But now, it`s on us toimprove the security at the Capitol, and to figure out exactly what wentwrong.And I was actually pleased that we got these witnesses, three of whom, asyou pointed out, Rachel, have resigned from their positions in the wake ofwhat happened to come voluntarily and answer questions in a respectfulmanner. I don`t think anyone thought we would pull it off but we believethat the public needed to know what happened, and the only way this ishelpful for people is if we go forward with solutions. And that`s the nextstep.MADDOW: On that -- on that chain of command question, the decision makingquestion there, do you anticipate that you`ll ask Vice President Pence orhis staff to come in and testify about their role at any point?KLOBUCHAR: Right now, we`re focused on the FBI, Homeland Security and theDefense Department, because they have not come in and testified about thisyet. This was the first hearing in the Senate after the impeachment trial.So that`s what we`re focused on.I think part of what, and I spent that evening with Vice President Pencebecause as Senator Blunt pointed out at the hearing today, at 4:00 in themorning, it was just Vice President Pence and Senator Blunt and myselfwalking with those two young women with the mahogany box, with the ballots,over to the House where Speaker Pelosi was waiting so we could finish ourjobs. And I`ve talked to him about this directly but haven`t asked himthat.I think we have to look at these in a lot of different tracks. Our jobright now is to look at the domestic terrorism and figure out solutions.The Judiciary Committee will be going at it in a big way and ChristopherWray will be testifying next week before the Judiciary Committee.And then finally, major investigations going on in the Justice Department.Already, people charged and I think you heard Merrick Garland speakhurtfully about how important this is to him and all of this by the way isgoing on while we must do our other work. Get the people confirmed andalso, for Joe Biden`s cabinet, and also, see that light at the end of thetunnel getting through this pandemic.And we have a very solemn ceremony today for the 500,000 Americans thathave lost their lives. I`m so proud this new administration, it was justannounced, up 70 percent from when Joe Biden came in with the number of thevaccines that they`ve sent out to the states.There is a lot going on here as you point out every night. But we stillhave to make sure that this temple of democracy is safe.MADDOW: Senator Amy Klobuchar, the chair of the Rules Committee in theSenate that convened this first hearing today on the events of 1/6 at theCapitol. Thank you for your forbearance with our gremlins there. I reallyappreciate it.KLOBUCHAR: Thank you.MADDOW: All right. We got much more ahead. As I mentioned, the head of theHomeland Security Committee, Gary Peters, will be joining us. Peters willbe joining us.ity se Peters will be joining us. Peters will also be joiningus.Lot`s more still to come. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW; The reason that Texas Republican Senator Ted Cruz is opposed toPresident Biden`s health secretary nominee, he says, is that that nomineeXavier Becerra is not a doctor. If you`re going to be health secretary, youmust be a doctor, says Ted Cruz. So Senator Cruz is against Xavier Becerrabecause Becerra is not a doctor.Nevertheless, Senator Ted Cruz voted for the last health secretary underpresident Trump who was a man named Alex Azar. Senator Cruz voted for AlexAzar to be health secretary, even though you`ll be shocked to learn, AlexAzar is also not a doctor.See, it`s unacceptable to nominate a non-doctor to be health secretaryunless that nominee is from a Republican president in which case I have togo.Republican Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina has also expressedobjection to Xavier Becerra being nominated as health secretary. SenatorBurr`s objection is that Xavier Becerra served on coming for a long time oncommittee that`s had important oversight roles in health care issues,involved in a lot of health care policy that way. But Senator Burr saidthat`s not appropriate experience for someone joining the cabinet to workon health issues.That`s his stance against Xavier Becerra being health secretary. Yes, heworked on health stuff a ton in Congress but that`s not the kind ofexperience you need for being health secretary in the cabinet. Despitestance now, under President Trump, Senator Richard Burr expressed greatenthusiasm for a Trump cabinet nominee named Dan Coats. Dan Coats wasnominated to be director of intelligence.Why did Dr. Burr like Dan Coats for that job so much, even though Dan Coatshad never held any national security or intelligence job ever beforegetting that nomination?Well, Senator Burr explained it at the time. He said Dan Coats would be anexcellent choice for director of national intelligence. He said hisexperience as a valued member of Senate Intelligence Committee will help toguide him as the next director of national intelligence. He said I thinkhis time on the committee has served him to understand what that roleentails.So to be clear, just serving in Congress, being on committees that worksomething, that`s not enough to make you qualified to serve in the cabinetonly issue unless you`re nominated by a Republican president and then it`sokay. If you`re nominated by a Democratic president on the same basis, thenyou are deeply unqualified and you must be withdrawn.President Biden`s nominee for agriculture secretary, Tom Vilsack, wasapproved 92-7 today. The president`s nominee for U.N. ambassador, veterandiplomat Linda Thomas-Greenfield was confirmed as well, 78-21.But Republicans are rummaging in their hats for any rabbits they can findto try to slow down or stop all the other Biden cabinet nominees that theyhave targeted.Xavier Becerra batted down objections from Republican senators at hisconfirmation today. Got objections that Republicans are raising againstminimum they have no problem with at all from President Trump`s nominees insimilar circumstances.Today, President Biden`s nominee for interior secretary, Deb Haaland, hadher confirmation hearing as well, and the knock on her for Republicansenators is that Deb Haaland has expressed concerns about oil and gasdrilling on public lands. Hmm, well, I can see why that would be verydifficult for them to swallow.Do you know who else expressed concerns about oil and gas drilling onpublic lands? Joe Biden, who was elected president after publicly andrepeatedly expressing those concerns, after making campaign promises abouthow he would govern as president, saying he would vector those publiclystated concerns of his into effect when he made policy as president. He waselected president saying I`m a little worried about oil and gas drilling onpublic lands and I`m going to do something about it.So yes, he has chosen somebody to be interior secretary who agrees with himonly. It would be weird if he didn`t. It would be a scandal if he didn`t.He wouldn`t campaign on protecting public lands from oil and gas drillingand then put someone in charge of that part of the government and say gungho, let`s drill the bejesus out of some sacred national monuments. I canget this done. I won`t tell Biden.Right. Who did you think he was going to nominate?But these shocking revelations about Deb Haaland that she holds the samepolicy positions that literally anyone nominated by President Biden to thisposition would have to hold to get the nomination, that means Republicansenators will not only vote no against Deb Haaland. They spent todaytelling her how terrible she is and they want Biden to withdraw thenomination because it is so outrageous that she agrees with him on basicpolicy matters that he campaigned on.Good luck with that. Deb Haaland will be confirmed. She will be the firstnative-American ever confirmed to a U.S. cabinet position and it will becelebrated by native communities coast to coast like nothing you`ve everseen. Almost all Republicans will have nevertheless opposed her on thegrounds that she, heaven forbid, agrees with the president on a majorpolicy issue.When almost all, if not all Republican senators oppose her, nativecommunities in their states will never forget that vote ever. Deb Haalandwill be confirmed by the Senate regardless of Republicans` bad faithobjections to her. And Xavier Becerra will be confirmed by the Senate,again, too, regardless of Republican senators` bad faith objections to him.If you didn`t care that Alex Azar was not a doctor, you can`t explainthat`s your big explain with this other guy who isn`t a doctor either.That`s how you teach a first grade better what bad faith means. Deb Haalandand Xavier Becerra will be confirmed, just like Tom Vilsack and LindaThomas-Greenfield were confirmed today. Just like Merrick Garland will beconfirmed as our next attorney general despite all the Republican senatorsstanding up and intoning solemnly about how much they`re horrified by anyhint of the White House trying to influence the workings of departmentprosecutors.You can actually read these Republican senators` "lock her up, lock her up"tattoos through their shirt sleeves. While they are making these piousarguments as if this is something they have strong principled feelingsabout after they never once peeped about president Trump burning theJustice Department down in terms of interference. Lock her up, lock her up.Anyone who is arguing to you that Democrats need to scooch over to theRepublican senators on confirmations, withdraw any confirmation that`sRepublicans don`t like, anybody who is telling that you Democrats need toscooch over to the positions of Republican senators on policy and startdoing things that they say they want instead of what President Biden andthe Democrats campaigned on and what they can do and want to do, becausescooching over to the Republican side will build good faith withRepublicans. It will build goodwill.If only the Democrats unilaterally give stuff to the Republicans they don`tneed to give up, the Republican there`s appreciate about that. It`s a goodfaith sign. It will break open a new era of substantive bipartisancooperation.Anyone arguing that to you in this century, in 2021, is not watching whatthe Republicans are actually doing in the Senate, or the absolutely boldbad faith with which they are behaving toward Biden nominees.But beyond Republicans trying to pull the same bad faith stuff over andover again, the other person playing that same bad faith game within theDemocratic Party is West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin who is veryconcerned, he says about, civility, about temperament, of all nominees andhe won`t vote for any of them if they don`t meet his exacting standardsabout civility and temperament and comportment.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)BRETT KAVANAUGH, SUPREME COURT JUSTICE: I worked my tail off.SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI): And did the word you used --KAVANAUGH: I already answered the question.WHITEHOUSE: You like alcohol. You answer that.KAVANAUGH: I like beer. I like beer.WHITEHOUSE: OK.KAVANAUGH: I don`t know if you like beer, Senator or not? What do you liketo drink? Senator, what do you like to drink?WHITEHOUSE: Next one is -- judge, have you --(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Joe Manchin voted for Brett Kavanaugh`s confirmation to theSupreme Court. Senator Manchin voted for Trump Ambassador nominee RicGrenell who had a rap sheet a mile long of insulting women online for theirlooks, women in politics, insulting politicians` family members, rippingmostly Democrats and some people in the media, mostly women, in nastysexist terms over and over again for years. He was like a professionalTwitter troll.Joe Manchin voted to confirm Ric Rendell. Joe Manchin voted to confirm menwith records like hat. And even behavior in the witness assistant likethat. But he has decided this year with a president of his own party, witha Democratic president in power, he has a new standard now. Now he says theBiden nominee, Neera Tanden, her history of having said things like, oh,calling Mitch McConnell Voldemort or calling Ted Cruz heartless, he hasdecided that what is violates this new line he`s just drawn for civilityand comportment, a line that he did not apply or even reference whenconsidering dudes nominated by Trump over and over and over again.But here for Neera Tanden, nominated to run the Office of Management andBudget, well, this young lady got to watch her mouth. A new standard forher.We are watching two things in Washington right now where there`slegitimately totally open question as to the outcome. One is about theminimum wage. The parliamentarian of the Senate is set to decide if therules in the Senate are going to allow the Democrats to cast a rise in theminimum wage with just 50 votes or will it need to be 60, in which case itwon`t happen because ten Republicans won`t support it.We are waiting on that legitimate question. We`re also waiting to see whatwill happen to the Neera Tanden nomination to run the Office of Managementand Budget. The double standard she`s being judged by one Democraticsenator, by Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia is something that so farhe`s mounted no defense to at all, which is getting to be astonishing,given the stark know of the double standard that he`s applying to hercompared to the Trump nominees that he was happy to approve without anyreference to the things he`s saying are a bright line for him with thisnominee.But it`s interesting. In previous Democratic nominations, we might haveseen them caving over issues like this. In this case, they`re not.President Biden`s nominee is standing by Neera Tanden, not withdrawing hernomination, saying she is their nominee and they intend to see her through.Senator Schumer, the Democratic leader in the Senate, also standing by herin the Senate, saying that she is the nomine and they intend to see herthrough. It`s just Joe Manchin. Just him presumably, hopefully, thinkinghard about his own ethical standards, and why this particular nominee feltso over the line for him when he`s been very happy to vote for multipleTrump guys who are so far over the line. It didn`t even register as a lineat that time.I think that Senator Joe Manchin not only knows his power but I think he isan introspective guy who thinks about his ethical role in the world and Ifind it hard to believe that he is not reconsidering his position on thisgiven the stark double standard he`s applying without any effort to defendit. The White House is not withdrawing her name and why should they?Senator Manchin hasn`t even tried to explain himself yet.I don`t know where this one ends but Neera Tanden will get voted out ofcommittee tomorrow. So, questions being called.Watch this space.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: One of the repeated lines today from the Senate hearing on theCapitol attack was that the deadly events of January 6th were the resultsof an intelligence failure. Officials testified that while they were madeaware of threats of violent leading up to January 6th, they didn`t expectthey weren`t prepared for this level of violence.Former chief of the Capitol police testified based on the intelligence theyreceived his team, quote, planned for an increased level of violence andthat some participants may be armed, but none of the intelligence wereceived actually predicted what actually occurred.Here`s the thing, though, if officials made aware of potential armedprotesters, why were they not prepared for an armed insurrection? I mean,they were expecting, what, a little bit of violence, a manageable amount ofarmed attack on the Capitol, a containable riot? I mean, now that we`regetting into the investigation that we saw today with this hearing onCapitol Hill into what happened on January 6th, it does still feel likethere was this elephant in this room.Honestly, there was plenty of intelligence. I remember reporting on itbefore January 6th. Plenty of open source intelligence that a mob of Trumpsupporters primed for and capable of violence was going to be in D.C.during the electoral vote count. The president called them specifically forthat date for that reason. He told them it was going to be wild. That washis word "wild."The under-armed, undermanned, underprepared security response to that isnot because nobody knew they were coming. It is because of the stillunexplained underestimation of the seriousness of the potential forviolence from this kind of crowd specifically. Why is that?Joining us now is Senator Gary Peters of Michigan, chairman of the HomelandSecurity and Government Affairs Committee, one of the two committees thatconvened at the Capitol attack.Chairman Peters, thank you so much for making time tonight, Senator. Ireally appreciate you being here.REP. GARY PETERS (D-MI): Great to be with you, Rachel, as always.MADDOW: So one of the questions that was raised indeed on January 6th andespecially in the immediate aftermath was the question of whether thepotential for violence here was underestimated because the expectedprotesters were largely white and conservative and were seen as allied withthe Republican Party and a Republican cause.Are we any closer to discerning whether or not that perception of the crowdwas key to the underestimation of their potential for violence that day?PETERS: Well, I`ll tell you, Rachel, it is hard to understand how theycould possibly underestimate the potential for violence with this rally. Itwas clear, as you mentioned, which is absolutely clear, on social media itwas all over the place.In fact, we had reports of this crowd that was going to descend on theCapitol to "Stop the Steal", when we know how the "Stop the Steal" was codeword for getting folks incredibly angry and agitated that their democracywas being taken from them. We have President Trump constantly talking aboutit. You mentioned his tweets calling people to come on January 6th.So it was certainly all over social media. It was pretty clear for anyone.In fact, I remember friends coming to me and saying, Gary, how do you feelgoing to Washington? Are you concerned about what`s happening?These were not intelligence experts. These were men and women, friends ofmine, folks on the street. It was very clear that something bad couldpotentially happen.But then you also had intelligence reports, as we brought up today. OnJanuary 3rd, a report from Capitol Police that talked about, in fact, whatis public is the fact that it was going to be different from some of theactivities that occurred earlier where there was violence against groups,between groups, that this one was -- the target was Congress. It wasCongress itself that was going to be the target of violent activity.And if you remember, the Capitol police, your job is to protect Congressand it was -- it was out there. So, it is very difficult to understand whythe kinds of -- or the procedures were not put in place to make sure therewas adequate protection, making sure the police had riot gear, to make surethey were able to protect the Capitol close up, to make sure the NationalGuard was able to respond and be ready to respond at a moment`s notice,which we know didn`t happen.MADDOW: Well, now that these hearings from started, you and SenatorKlobuchar convening this hearing today. We have heard there is going to beanother hearing soon with Pentagon officials. I am very interested in thatquestion on what happened at the Pentagon when that call came in asking theNational Guard`s help, and they got hemmed and hawed for hours before anyNational Guard troops were on the ground, backstopping those policeofficers who so desperately needed the help.What is your biggest remaining black box? What`s the -- what`s the biggestopen question for you that you feel needs to be answered most urgently thatcould be answered by the kind of inquiry that you and your committee arepursuing?PETERS: Well, this next hearing is taking a broader look. Certainly whathappened on January 6th and the question that we certainly need to haveanswered is why did it take so long for the National Guard to respond?As you recall today in the hearing, I actually asked the chief of police,the Metro D.C. Police, he was on that call and he said he was shocked bythe tepid -- it was his word -- tepid response from the Department of theArmy when they were calling -- actually pleading for help to have theNational Guard. He said the response coming back from the army official is,well, what are your plans? When it should be, we will be there. We`ll getthere. Let`s talk about all of that, but we`re going to send folks to youright away.That didn`t happen. It shocked the chief of police of the Metro D.C. policeforce that that was the response that they were getting. We`re going to askthose questions. We`re going to have someone from the Department of Defenseat our hearing next week.But we`re also going to need to look at the broader issue, something I havebeen focused on over the last couple of years and plan to focus intently onnow as the chair of the Homeland Security Committee. This is the rise ofdomestic terrorism, of white supremacists, of anti-government groups. Wesaw it firsthand in Michigan unfortunately with a group that was plottingto kidnap our governor and perhaps kill her.We`ve seen folks descend our Capitol and the state of Michigan heavilyarmed. This is a very concerning development. It is getting worse. We haveto treat it with the seriousness that it deserves.We know that we need to get more intelligence on what these groups are upto and make sure that we disrupt any type of plots they may have to attackgovernment buildings and officials, innocent folks, whatever it may be, weneed to be better prepared to deal with domestic terrorism, and that willbe a big part of what we talk about next week. And, certainly, we sawevidence of that on the Capitol grounds where groups came.In fact, we heard in testimony today that there were folks that wereengaged in military-type operations on that ground, trying to create evenmore chaos and perhaps capturing members of Congress to kidnap them.This is serious business. We have to treat it seriously. It was not treatedseriously by the previous administration. In fact, you could argue it wasencouraged.That`s got to stop. We`re going to take those steps to unfold.MADDOW: Senator Gary Peters of Michigan, chair of the Homeland SecurityCommittee, with a mission statement there that is frankly good to hear,sir. Thank you very much. Godspeed to you. Thanks.PETERS: Thank you.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: That`s going to do it for us tonight. We`re expecting another busynews day tomorrow. We will find out if Democrats are going to be able tomove an advance, a rise in the minimum wage through a process that meansthey will only need 50 votes in the Senate, which might mean it would passas opposed to needing Republicans to side with them.We`re also expecting to see the man who Donald Trump put in charge of thePost Office for the purpose of breaking it. We`re going to see him tomorrowbefore a House Oversight Committee. That should be lots of fireworks. Thatstarts tomorrow morning.It`s going to be a busy day tomorrow. We`ll see you again tomorrow night.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>