Summary:MSNBC`s coverage of Donald Trump`s second impeachment trial.Interview with Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis, who`s openingan investigation, potential criminal investigation that could result infelony charges against the president as a private citizen, the formerpresident, President Trump. Interview with U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouseof Rhode Island.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: That does it for us and "ALL IN" on this Thursdayevening.THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thanks, my friend. Muchappreciated.And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.I will tell you right now our first guest we`re going to have tonight tosomebody who you`re going to want to see. We`ve got an interview tonightwith somebody who is in an absolutely unique status as a national newsmakertonight. I will explain who she is, and you will want to see this interviewcoming up in our next segment.But it is -- it has been a remarkable news day today. President Bidenannounced today that the U.S. government has found a way to purchaseanother 200 million doses of coronavirus vaccine. This is Moderna andPfizer, the first two vaccines that have been approved here. They`re boththose two-dose vaccines. They`ve got 200 million more doses.And what that means mathematically is now we`ve got sort of a horizon onour pandemic finally. I mean at least on paper what this means, what thisannouncement from President Biden means tonight is that we should haveenough supplies on hand to vaccinate every American by the end of July.Today, we had another day of more than 2 million shots administered in asingle day. Remember then facing all that skepticism about whether theycould get to a million shots a day in order to get to President Biden`sgoal of 100 million shots in his first 100 days. Well, today, we hadanother day where they did 2 million -- 2 million vaccine dosesadministered today.We`re finally starting to get there. We`re going to have more on that storyahead. It is really tremendous news. Chris Hayes talking about that tonighton MSNBC with a lot of optimism in his voice. I share that feeling.Alongside that, some disturbing reporting from "The New York Times" tonightthat the former president, President Trump, was actually quite grievouslyill with COVID-19 when he was hospitalized for it in October.Now, this is "New York Times" reporting. NBC News has not confirmed it. Butper "The New York Times", the White House and the president`s doctors seemto have quite comprehensively lied to the American public about how neardeath the president was. Including an expectation at the time we`re nowlearning about for the first time that they thought he was going to have tobe put on a ventilator when they whisked him off to Walter Reed that firstfight. We`re going to have more on that disturbing story tonight as well.Plus, of course, we`re expecting the CDC tomorrow to release its newguidelines for how to safely reopen schools. Reopening schools, of course,is another stated 100-day priority for the new president, President Biden.The devil is absolutely in the details in terms of how to safely reopenschools, particularly if the best case arising for getting everybodyvaccinated is now for high summer.But all those things are happening at once and we`re going to have more onall those stories ahead.At the same time, today, of course, was day three of the impeachment trialof former President Trump, the only president to be impeached in officetwice, the only president to ever face a Senate impeachment trial twice.Now, as we anticipated on last night`s show the prosecutors, the Houseimpeachment managers they didn`t use all the time allotted to them to maketheir case. They gave back hours of their time.Yesterday, they used less than 6 of the 8 hours they had. Today they usedless than 5 of their allotted 8 hours. They wrapped up around 4:30 p.m.Eastern today.But the prosecutors did wrap up their laying out the facts of the case.Tomorrow, the president`s defense will start laying out their case. They,too, of course, will be afforded the same amount of time, 16 hours over twodays.I`ve been wondering how they were going to handle that because of someweird dynamics within the president`s defense team. There was thatdisastrous performance by one of the president`s lawyers in particular whenthey got to, you know, put the car on the track and run the first few lapsin the trial on Tuesday.I have to say I apologize for last night saying that Mr. Castor`sperformance on Tuesday was Bart Simpson meet foghorn leg horn. That wasthat -- was uncalled for. I apologize for that, but Mr. Castor did havesome real trouble.And reporter Kaitlan Collins at CNN is reporting today that President Trumpactually considered firing Mr. Leghorn -- Mr. Castor on the spot after hisdisastrous turn in the spotlight on Tuesday. President Trump decided not tofire him. Mr. Castor is still on the team.But Mr. Trump`s other main lawyer, David Schoen, who President Trumpreportedly didn`t dislike quite as much as he disliked the other guy, Mr.Schoen is only available to the president`s defense team until 5:00tomorrow and not at all on the second day afforded to make their case,which is Saturday. For religious reasons he can`t be part of the trial anytime after Sunday or anytime on Saturday.So, how are they going to handle that if tomorrow they`ve got eight hoursand Saturday, they`ve got another eight hours to lay out their case? If Mr.Schoen can`t be there for the bulk of the time, and if the other guythey`ve got President Trump can`t stand the sight of him, how are theygoing to deal?Well, the reporting would seem to indicate the way they`re going to dealwith this problem is just by not mounting much of a defense at all. They`vebeen allotted under the trial rules 16 hours over two days to make theircase. They`re reportedly planning on using maybe a total of 3 hours, usingnone of their time on Saturday, maybe only using three hours tomorrow. Theywould be starting at noon tomorrow, be done before they`d even need to takea single break.That is reportedly the plan, but, you know, who knows? Mr. Castor who hadthat sad showing on Tuesday, he reportedly wasn`t even supposed to speak atall on day one before he gave his master meander class that afternoon. Howcan you, like, wake up on a Tuesday not knowing if you`re giving an hours-long presentation to the United States Senate as a defense lawyer for thepresident, how can you wake up on Saturday thinking that`s not going tohappen and then it happens? But apparently, that`s kind of how they`rerolling.Today in making the end of their case against President Trump, theprosecutors, the House impeachment managers, they covered a lot of groundand as they said did so fairly quickly. Congresswoman Diana DeGette andCongressman David Cicilline talked about the rioters that day sayingexplicitly that they were there in D.C. because they believed they had beeninvited to be there by the president.When President Trump asked his supporters to come to D.C. to stop thesteal, to stop the certification of the vote on January 6, his supporterstook him seriously and literally. The president`s defense is expected toargue tomorrow as they did in their written legal filings that all thesepeople just came to D.C. of their own accord and for their own reasons andit really had nothing to do with President Trump. The rioters` own wordsthat day many of which were broadcast today in the Senate chamber forsenators to see, and the rioters` words in their legal defense filing sincethey`ve all been arrested give absolute lie to that assertion because theysay over and over again that they are there for Trump, they are there atTrump`s request, they`re there at Trump`s instruction.The impeachment managers rebutted from the president`s lawyers that somehowinciting the crowd to violently attack the U.S. Capitol is protected speechunder the first amendment. President Trump`s lawyers have suggested theywill make a first amendment defense. I think it seems quite clear theywill. I`m not sure how many other avenues are open to them.But it is clear even if you`re not a lawyer that the First Amendment istotally irrelevant as a defense since -- as a defense to the question ofwhether somebody can be impeached for things they say and do as a publicofficial, the First Amendment is about protecting private speech fromgovernment encroachment. If you are speaking as a public official and youare being impeached or potentially convicted for your words as a publicofficial and whether or not they constitute high crimes and misdemeanors, aviolation of your oath of office, then the First Amendment is literallycompletely irrelevant.But the impeachment managers mounted that defense today as a sort ofprebuttal to what they`re expecting the president`s lawyers tomorrow tosay. Congressman Cicilline talked about the consequences of the attack onthe Capitol, including something that`s been largely visible to the publicwhich is the terrorization of the people who worked at the Capitol buildingthat day, including people who work in-house keeping staff and janitorialstaff and congressional staffers as well.Incidentally, the letter from current congressional staffers, the openletter from current congressional staffers to the Senate begging senatorsto please think about their staff, to please consider what the staff wentthrough that day and please vote to convict the president so this neverhappens again, it`s a letter we have previously reported on here on thisshow. As of today, we`re now told it has more than 400 congressionalstaffers signed onto it, again, begging senators to please convict.Congressman Joaquin Castro talked about the consequences of the attack forour national security, the reaction of other countries, and particularlyother countries that hate us. The public gloating in exploitation of theattack by our enemies, countries like Russia saying the attack provesdemocracy is over because look at the smoking hulk we`ve made of it here.But I think the most jarring argument today was the argument we heard indifferent ways from multiple House managers that there`s really no reasonto think the threat is over, particularly as senators vote to acquit theformer president and thereby assure there are no consequences for him forhaving done this. And, of course, he`ll try it again. I mean, why wouldn`the?The country is talking about this and trying to contend with this as anincredible tragedy, as a disaster of magnificent consequences for ourcountry and for our democracy, including as I said for our standing in theworld. But there`s no sign that President Trump sees it that way at all.There`s no sign he has any problem at all with the fact he did this oncealready.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)REP. JOE NEGUSE (D-CO): He didn`t react to the violence with shock orhorror or dismay as we did. He didn`t immediately rush to Twitter anddemand in the clearest possible terms that the mob disperse, that they stopit, that they retreat. Instead, he issued messages in the afternoon thatsided with them, the insurrectionists who had left police officers batteredand bloodied. He reacted exactly the way someone would react if they weredelighted and exactly unlike how a person would react if they were angry athow their followers were acting.REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): This pro-Trump insurrection did not spring intolife out of thin air. We saw how Trump spent months cultivating America`smost dangerous extremist groups. We saw how he riled them up with corrosivelies and violent rhetoric. He`d seen many of the exact same groups he wasmobilizing participate in extremist violence before.Moreover, he`s seen clearly how his own incitement to violence and praiseafter the violence took place galvanized, encouraged and electrified theseextremist followers. These tactics were road tested. Jan 6th was aculmination of the president`s actions not an aberration from them.The insurrection was the most violent and dangerous episode so far inDonald Trump`s continuing pattern and practice of inciting violence. But Iemphasize so far.REP. TED LIEU (D-CA): He does not say in that video, for example,everything I said in the months prior went too far. And he does not say theone sentence that matters. He does not say the one sentence that would stopfuture political violence, the election was not stolen. He still hasn`tsaid that sentence. That is why National Guard troops in full body armorstill patrol outside.RASKIN: He knew they were coming. He brought them here, and he welcomedthem with open arms. We hear you and love you from the Oval Office.My dear colleagues, is there any political leader in this room who believesif he`s ever allowed by the Senate to get back into the Oval Office, DonaldTrump would stop inciting violence to get his way? Would you bet the livesof more police officers on that? Would you bet the safety of your family onthat? Would you bet the future of our democracy on that?President Trump declared his conduct totally appropriate. So if he getsback into office and it happens again, we`ll have no one to blame butourselves.NEGUSE: Senators, the evidence is clear. We showed you statements, videos,affidavits that prove President Trump incited an insurrection, aninsurrection that he alone had the power to stop. And the fact that hedidn`t stop it, the fact that he incited a lawless attack and abdicated hisduty to defend us from it, the fact that he actually further inflamed themob -- further inflamed that mob, attacking his vice president whileassassins were pursuing him in this capitol -- more than requiresconviction and disqualification.We humbly, humbly ask you to convict President Trump for the crime forwhich he is overwhelmingly guilty of. Because if you don`t, if we pretendthis didn`t happen or worse if we let it go unanswered, who`s to say itwon`t happen again?(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Who`s to say it won`t happen again? Congressman Joe Neguse there atthe end. The impeachment manager trying to make the stakes as clear as theycan be here.That not only would an acquittal of the president after this triallegitimize this conduct by the former president last month, it wouldeffectively legitimize conduct like this for hypothetical malevolent futurepresidents or even for the last non-hypothetical malevolent president tomaybe try it again.And if he`s going to try it again, if he`s knowing to try to use violenceto get his way politically again, what`s to say he`s not going to use itfor people who are hearing that argument from Congressman Neguse in thatroom today. The former president knows now he`s got a mob at hisfingerprints, which can wreck infinite havoc at his say so, and maybe someof them will go to prison for it but, you know, he golfed today.And even all the Republican senators in that room know that Trump wouldhappily direct such a mob against them if it served his purposes, and he`ddo it at the drop of a hat.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)RASKIN: If we don`t draw the line here what`s next? What makes you thinkthe nightmare with Donald Trump and his law making and violent mobs isover? If we let him get away with it and then it comes to your statecapitol or comes back here again, what are we going to say?These prior acts of incitement cast a harsh light on Trump`s obviousintent, obvious intent, his unavoidable knowledge of the consequences ofhis incitement, the unavoidable knowledge of the consequences of hisincitement and the clear foreseeability of the violent harm that heunleashed on our people and our republic.January 6th was not some unexpected radical break from his normal, law-abiding and peaceful disposition. This was his state of mind. This was hisessential M.O. He knew that egged on by his tweets, his lies and hispromise of a wild time in Washington to guarantee his grip on power, hismost extreme followers would show up bright and early ready to attack,ready to engage in violence, ready to fight like hell for their hero.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Congressman Jamie Raskin today, the lead impeachment managertalking about the president`s state of mind, his obvious intent, hisessential M.O., his modus operandi.Watching the managers lay out their case the last couple of days, it hasbeen interesting to see -- interesting to me at least. I didn`t expectthis. That one of the things that has loomed increasingly large with each,you know, few hours of this trial that have gone by, maybe it`s gottenbigger and bigger overshadowing this and for me at least on some days isthe question of whether there might actually end up being a criminalprosecution here.I mean, this is a court of impeachment. This is not a criminal court, andthe president doesn`t have to be found guilty of a crime that`s in thepenal code in order to be convicted by the impeachment court.But what about the prospect of him being criminally prosecuted? I mean itdidn`t happen that the president`s defense counsel went there right on dayone which I`m sure did not help with the whole President Trump wanting tofire him there on the spot right then and there probably.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)BRUCE CASTOR, TRUMP`S IMPEACHMENT LAWYER: After he`s out of office you goand arrest him, so there is no opportunity where the president of theUnited States can run rampant in January at the end of his term and just goaway scot-free. The Department of Justice does know what to do with suchpeople.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: You know, go ahead and arrest him. Y`all thought of that? That isthe defense lawyer for the president. Nice job.The article of impeachment approved by the House which is the basis forthis trial now in the Senate, the charge of incitement for insurrectionwhich former President Trump is being charged in the Senate right now, inaddition to the events of January 6th, the article mentions just one otherspecific event.Quote: President Trump`s conduct on January 6, 2021, followed his priorefforts to subvert and obstruct the certification of the results of the2020 presidential election. Those prior efforts included a phone call onJanuary 2nd during which President Trump urged the Secretary of State ofGeorgia, Brad Raffensperger to find enough votes to overturn the Georgiapresidential election results.President Trump threatened Secretary Raffensperger if he failed to do so. Iknow that that thing in Georgia, that little episode of attempted electioninterference by Donald Trump has been swallowed up by history already. Allright, this phone call was eclipsed by the violent attack on the U.S.Capitol just four days later. It`s like how the resignation of VicePresident Spiro Agnew got swallowed up in history because Watergate forcedthe resignation of President Nixon right after.And so, when I wrote -- the podcast and wrote a book about Spiro Agnew,people were like, who`s that guy? You wouldn`t believe what a big scandalthat was for a minute until a much bigger scandal eclipsed it and made usall forget the earlier one. When a really, really life changing thinghappens, it tends to blot out the memory of a lot of really bad stuff thatmight have happened before that.And so, it is with this Georgia call. But there`s a reason this Georgiacall, this January 2nd phone call is the one other specific event that theauthors of the impeachment resolution decided to include in their chargesagainst former President Trump. It`s because before the January 6th violentattack on the U.S. Capitol members of Congress were already considering asecond impeachment of President Trump just for that call.Because at that point before the violent attack on the U.S. Capitol, hishour-long phone call to Georgia`s secretary of state pushing andthreatening that Georgia official to try to get the election resultsoverturned there -- before the attack on the capitol that was presidentTrump`s most egregious and blatant act of trying to apparently criminallyalter and mess with the election results to try and hold onto power. And henot only did it, it was all on tape.(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT: So what are we going to do here, folks? Ionly need 11,000 votes. Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break.You know what they did and you`re not reporting it. That`s -- you know,that`s a criminal -- that`s a criminal offense. And, you know, you can`tlet that happen. That`s a big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer. That`sa big risk.It`s not fair to take it away from us like this, and it`s going to be verycostly in many ways. And I think you have to say that you`re going toreexamine it, and you can reexamine it but reexamine it with people thatwant to find answers not people that don`t want to find answers. You can`tlet it happen and you are letting it happen.You know, I mean, I`m notifying you that you`re letting it happen. So,look, all I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes.(END AUDIO CLIP)MADDOW: I want you to find exactly enough votes to declare me the winner ofthe election in your state. And if you don`t, that`s a big risk to you. I`mnotifying you. I`ll call that a criminal offense by you. Say you havereexamined it and I actually won or else.And when President Trump made that call on January 2nd, four days beforethe attack on the U.S. Capitol, he had already called Georgia`s governor topressure him to overturn the state`s election results, too. Trump hadpersonally called a lower level official in the secretary of state`soffice, the guy in charge of election investigations and spent a long timepersonally pressuring that guy, to quote, find the fraud that would resultin overturning the election results in Georgia and declaring Trump thewinner.While Trump was making all these calls personally, the top federalprosecutor in Atlanta, the U.S. attorney in Atlanta resigned under directpressure from the Trump White House because President Trump felt andcommunicated to that U.S. attorney that he was not doing enough to findthat nonexistent fraud that would somehow allow the overthrowing of theelection results.One of the things that made this series of escalating interventions inGeorgia`s election so remarkable is that it was just all so blatantlyillegal, right? Not just impeachable but illegal, like go to jail illegal.It is against the law in Georgia to solicit someone to commit electionfraud. Threatening state election officials to find you exactly the numberof votes you need to turn the election result the other way, threateningelections officials that they need to change vote counts in your favor orelse would surely seem to fall under that statute.Well, now even as Donald Trump`s second impeachment trial unfolds in theU.S. Senate -- and what a spectacle it is -- and that trial unfolds on anarticle of impeachment that specifically references Trump`s threateningcall to Georgia`s secretary of state. Well, now, a high-profile stateprosecutor in Georgia, the district attorney of the largest county in thestate, Fulton County, has now opened a criminal investigation that centerson that phone call.The district attorney there has sent this letter there to Georgia`ssecretary of state, governor, lieutenant governor and attorney general,instructing them all to preserve any and all records related to the 2020election.Quote: This letter is notice that the Fulton County district attorney hasopened an investigation into attempts to influence the administration ofthe 2020 Georgia election. This investigation includes but is not limitedto potential violations of Georgia law prohibiting the solicitation ofelection fraud, the making of false statements to state and localgovernmental bodies, conspiracy, racketeering, violation of oath of officeand any involvement in violence or threats related to the electionsadministration.Quote, this matter is of high importance. Excuse me. This matter is of highpriority. The next Fulton County grand jury is due to convene in March.This office will begin requesting grand jury subpoenas as necessary at thattime.Again, this is a criminal inquiry in Georgia. Soliciting election fraud canbe a felony in the state of Georgia that can put you in prison for a year.And while this new investigation centers on that phone call that presidentTrump made to the secretary of state on January 2nd, the same one that`smentioned in the impeachment article, it`s also broader than that. A stateofficial telling "The New York Times", the Fulton`s D.A. inquiry willinclude all those other calls Trump made to Georgia officials to try tolean on them to overturn the election.It will also look at the U.S. attorney who was forced out by the TrumpWhite House for not pursuing Trump`s bogus fraud claims. Whatever happensin this Senate impeachment trial which is still under way and I think we`reabout to get to some of the really good stuff, and whatever PresidentBiden`s Justice Departments decides ultimately about potentially pursuingany federal criminal charges against the former president, Donald Trump asof this week is now looking at potential criminal liability in two states.Remember in New York, state prosecutors there continue their investigationof Trump`s finances, whether he may have committed tax fraud and bank fraudand insurance fraud. And now in Georgia, this new criminal investigationinto Trump`s efforts to overturn his election loss in Georgia by pressuringGeorgia state officials with responsibility for elections to do hisbidding.Former presidents it should go without saying have no immunity fromprosecution anywhere. They just get tried like regular citizens. And itlooks like that may really happen potentially with prison time on the linefor President Trump.The Fulton county district attorney who has just announced the opening ofthis investigation, she is going to join us live for her first nationalinterview since taking this step. She`s here live with us next.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: In addition to the events of January 6th at the U.S. Capitol, thearticle of impeachment against Donald Trump also highlights something thathappened four days earlier, Trump`s phone call with Georgia`s secretary ofstate in which Trump spent an hour trying to alternately coax and threatenthat state official into overturning -- into overturning Joe Biden`selection win in that state.Trump told him, quote, I just want to find 11,780 votes. He told thesecretary of state that he should tell the public he has recalculated thevote tallies in Georgia and discovered that Trump actually won. And we knowthis is what President Trump said because the whole thing is on tape.Well, now, a Georgia state prosecutor, the district attorney in FultonCounty, has opened a criminal investigation centered on that phone call.It`s a crime in Georgia, potentially a felony to solicit someone to commitelection fraud.Here`s one other thing worth understanding about this, sort of wild aboutthe situation in Georgia when it comes to investigating this matter. One ofthe reasons the Fulton County district attorney has decided that she shouldbe the person to pursue this as a criminal investigation is that everyother investigative agency in the state that could conceivably havejurisdiction over a crime like this, every other one is potentiallycompromised by being a witness to the crime.This is what I mean. This is from the letter announcing the investigationthat the D.A. sent to Georgia`s governor and lieutenant governor andsecretary of state and attorney general. She says this, quote: It has cometo our attention via media reports that contacts were made with subjects ofthe investigation with other agencies that could be investigating thismatter, including the secretary of state, the attorney general and the U.S.Attorneys Office for the northern district of Georgia.As such this office, the Fulton County district attorney`s office is theone agency with jurisdiction that is not a witness to the conduct that isthe subject of the investigation.I mean, legal -- legal terminology aside, this is how pervasive PresidentTrump`s pressure campaign to overturn the election was in Georgia. I mean,the Georgia secretary of state`s office has opened its own investigationinto Trump`s call, but that means investigators there are in the awkwardposition of investigating a phone call that involved their own boss and oneof their coworkers.If they find anything criminal, they can refer it to the attorney general`soffice but guess what? Trump called and pressured the attorney general,too. Well, how about the federal prosecutor there? Oh, right Trump forcedthe U.S. attorney, the federal prosecutor out of office for not pursuinghis bogus voter fraud claims.And so, the Fulton County district attorney says she`s going to have to bethe one to figure out whether any crimes were committed here because she`sthe only relevant jurisdiction -- she`s the only office of relevantjurisdiction that wasn`t actually implicated or targeted by this potentialcriminal.That district attorney`s name is Fani Willis. She was elected last yearafter beating a sixth-term incumbent D.A. who also happened to be her boss.And now, she has launched what will be one of the most watched and closelyscrutinized criminal investigations in the country.I`m very pleased to say the Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willisjoins us now for the interview. This is her first national TV interviewsince opening this investigation.District Attorney Willis, thank you so much for your time tonight. I reallyappreciate you being here.FANI WILLIS, DISTRICT ATTORNEY, FULTON COUNTY, GEORGIA: No, thank you forhaving me.MADDOW: We have, of course, limited visibility into the actions of youroffice. We know what we know from the letters that have been made public,from the statements from your office and from other public sourcereporting. I feel like I need to just ask you at the outset if I`ve gottenanything wrong or if there`s anything that I`ve misconstrued in terms ofexplaining the actions of your office thus far.WILLIS: Actually, while I was listening to you, I thought you got itexactly right, that you understood what I was trying to express in thatletter. So, no, there`s nothing I heard that you got wrong.MADDOW: Oh, good.Well, the way your investigation has been reported in the press as Iunderstand it is that it is centered on but not limited to this phone callthat former President Trump made to Georgia Secretary of State BradRaffensperger. Is that a fair way to understand it?WILLIS: Absolutely. I`ve been in this business now for 25 years, 19 ofthose years have been spent as a prosecutor. What I know aboutinvestigations is they`re kind of like peeling back an onion and as you gothrough each layer, you learn different things. To be a responsibleprosecutor, you must look at all those things in investigation to be fairto everyone involved. This is very important matter as you`ve alreadyhighlighted.And so, yes, the investigation seems that it will go past just this onephone call that we`ve discussed and that you played for your viewers.MADDOW: The phone call is obviously a unique piece of evidence because thewhole country has heard it and because it has caused such political -- sucha political uproar. When it comes to the question of whether or not it --people heard on that call may be implicated in a crime, either as victim orperpetrator, is state of mind, intent, a key part of determining whether infact a crime was committed in a call like that?And I`m asking because the real thing I`m curious about is whether or notyou are going to expect to for instance depose the former president to tryto understand what his state of mind and his intent might have been behindthat call.WILLIS: Well, two things. First of all, in criminal law, we don`t dodepositions -- in very, very, very rare occasions. So that`s not somethingwe could use.Obviously, if one is charged with a crime, they`re a defendant and so theyhave a right to remain silent. And so, no, there would be no intent todepose.Now, someone that you`re investigating, you can inquire about an interviewand certainly, they can voluntarily come in and give an interview. But todepose them would not be a correct word.The other thing you said is a concept in the law and it`s mens rea, and yousaid it`s the state of mind of the individual important? Absolutely, whenany prosecutor throughout this country is interviewing people and trying todetermine if a crime was committed and if they understood what they weredoing, the mens rea is always important.And so, you look at facts to see did they really have intent, did theyunderstand what they were doing?Detailed facts become important like asking for a specific number and thengoing back to investigate and understand that that number is just one morethan the number that is needed. It lets you know that someone had a clearmind. They understood what they were doing, and so, when you`re pursuingthe investigation, facts like that that may not seem so important becomevery important.MADDOW: You mentioned in your letter -- and first of all, thank you forsetting me straight whether deposed is the right way to think about this.I`m not a lawyer and I don`t pretend to be. I don`t even play one ontelevision, so thank you for that.But if you could further educate me on the grand jury process a little bit,you did mention in your letter that the next Fulton County grand jury isdue to convene next month and your office will begin requesting grand jurysubpoenas as necessary at that time.Can you just walk us through what that -- what that means, what`s the workyou`ll be doing leading up to the grand jury convening, what circumstancesmight cause you to request or not request subpoenas at that point?WILLIS: Yes, ma`am.So, one of the things I did when I took office is that I made a commitmentto the citizens of this county, which is the largest in Georgia as youmentioned, with over a million people, something the prior administrationdid is they bragged about having this process of indicting and chargingpeople within 45 minutes. I don`t think you need to be a lawyer to knowthat that is probably an unjust process both for the victims of crime aswell as the people that are investigated.So when I took office on January 1st, I met with the chief judge, and Itold him that I did not -- there was no need to bring a grand jury in thefirst term of court, which for my jurisdiction, terms of courts are twomonths. So the term of court would be January and February because I neededto reinstruct my staff that we were going to investigate these crimes, andany crimes that we were going to present to the grand jury for charging orindictment would come up in the next term of court, which would be theMarch, April term.The grand jury, though, is a tool that is used to issue a subpoena. And so,I can write a nice letter to someone and say, hey, will you please give methis. But if they don`t give it to me, there`s no legal consequence.So the way to formally ask for an indictment that is compelling as opposedto just a lovely request is to issue a subpoena. And so, what I was doingas a courtesy to people that I respect very much is simply putting them onnotice that when a grand jury convened, which would be in March, that theycould expect to receive subpoenas.And that I would just ask that they as also members of the law enforcementcommunity inform and educate their staff to not destroy anything, to makesure that things were preserved because we would be coming to ask for them,and to make sure those people we needed to talk to as witnesses would beforthcoming, as we suspected (ph), none of them as being the target of aninvestigation, but just people that we needed to be truthful andforthcoming while we investigated this matter.MADDOW: A very important point that as yet, there`s no indication that anyGeorgia official is a target of the investigation.Madam District Attorney, would you mind if we took a quick break and wecame back? I have a couple more questions I`d like to ask you about this.but we just have to take a quick -- a quick breather.WILLIS: Thank you. No problem.MADDOW: All right. Fani Willis is the district attorney of Fulton County,Georgia. Her office has just announced a criminal investigation of effortsto influence the election administration, the general election in Georgiathis past fall. And you know what that means.I`ll be right back with her after this. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Yesterday, in the midst of the impeachment trial in Washington, astate prosecutor in Georgia, the district attorney in Fulton County,Georgia, announced the opening of a criminal investigation into attempts toinfluence the administration of the election in Georgia.With reference to what is included to the impeachment article againstPresident Trump, a call to pressure the Georgia secretary of state intochanging election results for that state.Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis joins us once again for "TheInterview". This is her first national TV interview since opening thisinvestigation.D.A. Willis, thanks again for sticking with us.I wanted to ask you about the impeachment element here, this phone callbetween then-President Trump and the secretary of state in Georgia ismentioned in the article of impeachment in which President Trump is beingtried right now.Did the impeachment and that process have any bearing at all on yourdecision to open this investigation or how you look at yourresponsibilities here?WILLIS: Zero. None whatsoever.MADDOW: So, a completely independent process, okay. We have --(CROSSTALK)WILLIS: Yeah, it`s a -- I mean, if -- if we watched -- I just want to beclear, if we watch that trial and witnesses come forward that are relevantto my investigation, certainly, we will do our due diligence and interviewthem.But whether there was an impeachment or not an impeachment would not changethe fact that something occurred here within my jurisdiction that may becriminal. And if that is the case, it needed to be investigated.MADDOW: I will mention impeachment in one other context here. Just becausewe have all as a country watched for 2-1/2 days now as House impeachmentmanagers have laid out this evidence about how the former president incitedhis supporters to violence against his perceived enemies. We`ve seen these,you know, videos of Trump supporters menacing and intimidating state andlocal officials they perceive to be anti-Trump.I just have to ask if you are -- I mean, obviously, you are a lawenforcement professional and you have been doing this for more than twodecades, 19 years as a prosecutor and you obviously stand on firm groundand know what you`re doing.But I have -- I have to ask if it`s crossed your mind if you`re worriedabout your own safety and that of your staff if opening this investigationcould make you targets?WILLIS: Oh, absolutely. Since we`ve opened this, we`ve gotten -- mysecurity has doubled. We`ve gotten a lot of comments. Interestingly enough,the comments are always racist, and it`s really just a waste of time andfoolishness. It`s not going to stop me from doing my job, and I don`t thinkit`s an insult to remind me that I`m a black woman.So, it is a waste of their time, but we do understand that some people areunstable. Some people think the nerve of me to actually do my job.But I took an oath. I made a commitment to the citizens in my community,and I`m going to do my job.MADDOW: Fani Willis, the district attorney of Fulton County, Georgia, I amsorry that you are getting those threats already. I have incredibleconfidence in your ability to handle anything that comes your way, but I`msorry that is coming your way in that way already.Thank you for helping us understand this investigation, and good luck toyou and your staff.WILLIS: Thank you so much.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: As the impeachment trial of the former president heads into dayfour tomorrow, his defense, starting tomorrow. As the president is alsofacing criminal investigation for his efforts to mess with the electionresults in Georgia, joining us now is a very experienced former prosecutorwho is now U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island.Senator Whitehouse, it`s great to see you tonight. Thank you so much formaking time.SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI): Thanks for having me on.MADDOW: I wanted to -- if you don`t mind, I think you were able to just seemy interview with Fani Willis, with the -- D.A. from Fulton County, Georgia--WHITEHOUSE: Yeah, right.MADDOW: -- who is opening this criminal investigation into an element ofthe impeachment. I just wanted to get your reaction to that, if you didn`tmind.WHITEHOUSE: Well, I`m super jealous because if this case ever goes totrial, she`s going to have a real jury, and when she presents her case, ifshe is convincing, as damning in her presentation as the House managerswere in the impeachment, she could very well get a guilty verdict.But we`ve got a very different jury, and they`ve predetermined there`sgoing to be no guilty verdict -- at least of many them.And so, it`s kind of nice to see the process of justice work the way it`ssupposed to or at least see the opening days of that begin, in a way thatends up in front of a real jury and not a compromised Senate.MADDOW: We are expecting to see the start of the president`s defensetomorrow. There`s reporting that suggests that they`re going to go veryshort. That they`re not going to use anywhere near even half the 16 hoursthat are allotted to them. I wonder at this point in the process, do youfeel like there should be witnesses?Part of the reason people said there shouldn`t be witnesses is that thisthing was going to go on for too long. But it now seems like a lot of thehours that were set aside for the trial are not going to be used by the --either the impeachment managers on one side or the defense counsel on theother.WHITEHOUSE: Well, you know, it will be interesting to see what the defensewants to do. I think that they know that they`re just in a terribleposition. They`re in the position where if this were a regular trial, infront of a real jury, they`d be running to the prosecutors and saying, cutme a deal, please. Whatever it takes, get my guy out of here. You`vecrushed us.So I think they`re just going to want to get out of there and rely on thefact that, you know, Trump`s sway over the Republican senators is going toget him acquitted. But if they do raise something that puts a fact, anissue, and there`s a witness who could bring that to light, then I thinkthere`s still the opportunity for the managers to move to try to make surethey have that chance.But at this point, I think the managers have just put in a really greatcase. I mean, just sitting there as a lawyer, as somebody who`s done alittle bit of this stuff, they were very, very good. They were all very,very good. And Raskin was fabulous.So, this is a great case. They don`t need to try to (INAUDIBLE) now withwitnesses.MADDOW: There`s been some controversy tonight with some of the Republicansenators apparently meeting with the president`s defense counsel tonight, along meeting on the Capitol grounds. That feels a little improper.Is that actually improper in this context with them effectively beingjurors meeting with one side of the -- one side of the table?WHITEHOUSE: Well, you`ve -- particularly the case when the president`slawyers have objected to the very well-regarded and widely respected PatLeahy, sitting in the sort of nominal position of presiding over the Senatethrough this trial, on the grounds of that is a conflict of interest. Iguess in a kind of wrong analogy to a criminal trial, but even if theanalogy were correct, you sure as heck as the defense counsel don`t meetwith your jurors.So the -- yeah, it`s -- it`s bad behavior. And it`s particularly badbehavior after the defense counsel have made those kind of sillyaccusations against Senator Leahy.MADDOW: Rhode Island Senator Sheldon Whitehouse -- sir, it is always apleasure to talk to you, particularly in the midst of all this superinteresting legal stuff. Thanks for being here tonight. Appreciate it.WHITEHOUSE: Of course.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: That is going to do it for us for tonight. I told you, you weregoing to want to see who my first guest was tonight. Fulton County DistrictAttorney Fani Willis -- again, opening an investigation, potential criminalinvestigation that could result in felony charges against the president asa private citizen, the former president, President Trump. Just astonishinginterview.Anyway, see you again tomorrow night.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>