Summary:The Supreme Court declines to block a New York grand jury fromobtaining Donald Trump`s tax returns. New York prosecutor`s investigationof Trump escalates. Democratic Senator Joe Manchin announced that he won`tvote to confirm Neera Tanden. Tomorrow is going to be a big news dayparticularly in Washington, second day of confirmation hearings forAttorney General Merrick Garland.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: We`re working hard to commemorate this in anappropriate way as we come up on a year of this pandemic.That is ALL IN on this Monday night."THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Chris. Thank you, my friend. Muchappreciated.And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.Tonight, just after 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time, President Biden and the firstlady and the vice president and her husband led a long just devastatinglysad moment of silence from the South Portico of the White House to honorthe half million Americans who have now died from COVID-19. It has onlybeen a year, and already, we have lost this year more than all theAmericans who died on the battlefield in World War I, and World War II, andthe Vietnam War, combined.More Americans that are buried at all of Arlington Cemetery, all gone inone year, all from this one contagion, this botched, terribly mishandledpandemic.Before the moment of silence and the candle lighting at the portico,President Biden gave what basically amounted to a national eulogy for allof those lost. He addressed the bulk of his remarks to Americans whopersonally have lost someone they loved to COVID, bringing to bear what`sbecome sort of his emotional trademark in his political life, his empathyfor people who are hurting.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We often hear of peopledescribed as ordinary Americans. There`s no such thing. There`s nothingordinary about them.The people we lost were extraordinary. They spanned generations, born inAmerica, immigrated to America. But just like that, so many of them tooktheir final breath alone in America.As a nation, we can`t accept such a cruel fate. While we`re fighting thispandemic for so long, we have to resist becoming numb to the sorrow. Wehave to resist viewing each life as a statistic or a blur or on the news.We must do so to honor the dead, but equally important, care for theliving, those left behind.For the loved ones left behind, I know all too well. I know what it`s liketo not be there when it happens. I know what it`s like when you are there,holding their hands, as you look in their eye, they slip away.That black hole in your chest, you feel like you`re being sucked into it.The survivor`s remorse. The anger. The questions of faith in your soul.For some of you, it`s been a year, a month, a week, a day, even an hour.And I know that when you stare at the empty chair around the kitchen table,it brings it all back no matter how long ago it happened, as if it justhappened that moment when you look at that empty chair.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Looking at that empty chair. President Biden tonight marking500,000 American lives lost to COVID-19.But let`s put up these new graphs as of today from the COVID trackingproject. Look, there is good news now, new cases now continuing to steadilydrop since mid-January. Cases have been steadily dropping and newhospitalizations have been steadily dropping, too.We are still at a hospitalization number that matches the worst of thespring surge and the surge in the summer. See how our low point now isstill as high as those high points ever got from earlier in the year? Butat least it is heading down and deaths are heading down, too, but not fastenough. Even now we are still losing nearly 2,000 Americans every singleday.And nobody knows yet whether the decline in new cases and newhospitalizations and deaths are attributable to Americans finally startingto get vaccinated in considerable numbers.Dr. David Kessler, top science advisor to the Biden administration`s COVIDresponse, told us on this show last week that it is just too early toseparate out any potential vaccine effect as the cause of these recentimprovements that we have seen over the past month. But on average, about amillion and a half Americans are getting the vaccine every single day now.That, of course, is coming too late for the half million Americans who havealready been killed and for their families and the people who love them.Frankly, the vaccinations that are happening now are coming too late forthe 60,000-plus Americans who just got diagnosed with COVID today. We`restill over 60,000 new vaccinations -- excuse me, 60,000 new infections aday, even coming down from that massive peak.All right. The vaccination effort moved too slowly to prevent 60,000-plusAmericans from getting infected now. But at least after all of this lossand failure, at least we are finally headed in the right direction,finally.And, you know, it is probably time to start thinking of what we are evergoing to be able to do for our nurses and doctors and hospital staff andEMTs and nursing home workers, all of the frontline health care staff whowe have just put through hell this past year. Forgive me. I mean we arestill asking more of them than is humanly possible.We will be for months yet, as long as 50,000 and 60,000 Americans are stillgetting newly infected every day. It will still be that we are asking themto do the impossible as long as our numbers stay that high. But we are thecountry that has had more deaths from COVID-19 and more sickness fromCOVID-19 than any other country on Earth, and the people who have had tocare for us all through it all, the health care workers, are going to needsome kind of thank you, some kind of respite at least when this is alldone. They have had to do things that are unimaginable, and for such a longtime, for a running sprint of a year.I don`t know what we should do on that front, but we really have asked theunimaginable of our nurses and doctors and health care staff. We are goingto have to turn our minds eventually, and I think soon, to how we do rightby them, to how we convey our thanks.In the midst of the pandemic, at 500,000 dead now, President Biden`snominee to be health secretary in the United States will get hisconfirmation hearing, finally, tomorrow, more than a month after Biden wassworn in. Republican senators are already lining up to say how they don`twant President Biden`s nominee, Xavier Becerra, to be confirmed as thehealth secretary, but it is likely he will be confirmed.There will also be nomination hearings this week for Deb Haaland forinterior secretary. She will be the first Native American cabinet secretaryin U.S. history if she is confirmed. Republican senators, though, areabsolutely opposed to her too. While we`re running down all the people ofcolor that Republicans object to as Biden cabinet nominees, we should alsonote his nominee to lead the office of management and budget, Neera Tanden,is also on the big bubble right now in terms of her nomination because ofnot just Republican opposition to her nomination, but at least oneconservative Democrat, Joe Manchin, has decided he doesn`t like her andwon`t vote for her.Senator Manchin, I should say, has apparently invented a whole new standardfor Neera Tanden that he never applied to other nominees that he voted for,which has put her nomination at risk. We will have more on that in a fewminutes tonight.But in addition to Becerra and Haaland and Tanden, there will be hearingthis week for the nominee to be CIA director, William Burns, and VivekMurthy to be surgeon general.Today, of course, was first of two days of confirmation hearings forMerrick Garland, President Biden`s nominee to be attorney general. JudgeGarland was President Obama`s nominee for a Supreme Court vacancy butRepublicans in the U.S. Senate decided they would hold that Supreme Courtseat open for more than a year so a Republican president could fill itinstead of even considering Judge Garland when he was nominated. Republicansenators are still pretending like that was some sort of normal move. Itabsolutely was not.But Merrick Garland himself apparently does not hold a grudge. I do. Ithink a lot of people do. I think holding a Supreme Court seat open formore than a year when you later prove once a Republican president was inthere that you could fill it in about five minutes if you wanted to, Idon`t think that`s normal. I kind of have a grudge about that.Merrick Garland apparently does not -- which means he is a better personthan I am on that scale and many others. But in a sort of twist of fate,the news gods gave us a confluence of events today that you`ve got to feellike they`ve been cooking up for some time with a little bit of a smirkperhaps, because while Judge Garland was having his confirmation hearingtoday, not for the Supreme Court because Republicans held a seat open for ayear instead of allowing him to be considered for that, today while he wasnot being considered for the Supreme Court but instead was considered tolead the U.S. Justice Department, it actually was the Supreme Court thatmade news big enough to justify news organizations breaking into theconfirmation hearings for the next attorney general of the United States.And the news was, in fact, big enough to justify that. As "The New YorkTimes" put it in their coverage of the story today, quote, the SupremeCourt`s order set in motion a series of events that could lead to thestartling possibility of a criminal trial of a former U.S. president.The former U.S. president in question soon affirmed that when he released arambling and even for him almost hysterical statement in response to theSupreme Court ruling, saying, quote, the people of our country won`t standfor it. He called the ruling of the court, quote, fascism. He was ramblingabout the court -- excuse me, rambling about what he called, quote, all theelection crimes that were committed against me.Really? Election crimes committed against you?He said in his statement that he won the last election and, therefore, JoeBiden isn`t even really the president. I don`t know why that claim is atall relevant to the Supreme Court ruling that he is freaking out abouthere, but it seems clear that that`s what he`s going to say from here onout whenever he freaks out about anything. That`s going to kind of his go-to.This isn`t happening. I`m still secretly the president in my mind. Thiscan`t all be true.The Supreme Court`s ruling today was issued in a short, unsigned opinionwith no noted diss certificated, was that no one, not even a man whobelieves in his heart of hearts that the earth is flat or that Donald Trumpwas reelected, no one is immune from investigation if prosecutors believethey have committed crimes and they have a legal predicate to move forwardwith such an investigation. No one is above the law.In August 2019, it was state prosecutors in New York who sent a subpoenafor Trump`s financial and tax records to the accounting firm used by thepresident and his business, and President Trump pulled out all of the stopsto try to block the subpoena from ever being effectuated.He sued to stop the firm from complying with the subpoena. That case wentto the United States Supreme Court twice. He lost both times at the SupremeCourt. He also lost at every lower court the case was heard in as well. Hislegal avenues are now well and truly exhausted.The accounting firm is now going to hand over the data. Multiple newsreports tonight describing their expected production to prosecutors asmillions of pages of tax returns and financial documents. Millions ofpages, terabytes full of data. Prosecutors will reportedly collect thisinformation."The New York Times" says this week from the accounting firm`s lawyers inWestchester county, New York. Prosecutors will get access to those millionsof pages and then get to work examining them and determining if they provea crime.Prosecutor already retained a large outside consulting firm thatspecializes in crunching this kind of data. The prosecutors` office hasalso brought in a heavy-hitting outside counsel who is a former chief ofthe criminal division and chief of the appellate division at SDNY. He is alawyer with a long history in white collar crime prosecution and defensework.The investigation that led to this point started with the investigationinto payments made during the 2016 campaign, payments to two women designedto keep them from talking publicly about their alleged affairs withcandidate Trump. Those payments were made to benefit the campaign ofcandidate Trump, and they were designated and prosecuted as campaignfinance felonies by prosecutors in SDNY. The president`s lawyer, MichaelCohen, who facilitated those payments, he went to prison for thosefelonies.But those payments that Mr. Cohen made to those women to benefit thepresident`s campaign, those payments were reimbursed by the president`sbusiness. Reimbursed in a way that was apparently designed to look as ifthey were payments to Michael Cohen for legal services. That is not whatthey were, but that is how they were processed through the Trumporganization`s financial systems.Now, depending on how exactly that was done, that cover-up could be a crimerelated to keeping fraudulent business records. If those fake legalexpenses reimbursed to Michael Cohen were ultimately deducted in the Trumporganization`s taxes, that could also be tax fraud. Michael Cohen, ofcourse, then testified to Congress and provided documentation attesting towhat he described as a long-running scheme by the former president and hisbusiness to defraud insurance companies and banks and tax authorities. Hedescribed a scheme in which the president and his business radicallychanged the valuation of various properties depending on who was asking.They basically kept two sets of books in Michael Cohen`s telling. When itcame time to pay taxes on a property, Trump would call the propertybasically worthless. But when it came time to use that property ascollateral to get, like, a loan from a bank or something, well, then,suddenly that same property would be worth the sun, the moon and the stars,which is a cute way to do it. Also, it is potential tax fraud, bank fraudand insurance fraud.But then came September 2020. It feels like it was 30 years ago. It waslike several months ago. It is only February now. This was only Septemberwhen it happened. It feels like a million years ago.September 2020, in the pages of "The New York Times", we came to learn invery dramatic fashion why exactly President Trump had been working so hardon keeping his tax and financial records hidden, why he was working harderon that than on anything else in the whole country.We learned why he was so panicked about keeping these things under wraps inSeptember when "The New York Times" reporters through separate meansobtained more than two decades of Trump tax records. And that reporting,those documents that "The Times" obtained threw off a World War`s worth ofbombshells. The president, a self-described billionaire, turns out he paida grand total of $750 in federal income tax in 2016, which is the year heran for president.Then in 2017, his first year in the White House, he again paid a grandtotal of $750 in federal income tax. In ten of the previous 15 years, hepaid zero in federal income tax, he paid nothing. "The Times" reported heowed as much as $100 million to the federal government in back taxes andpenalties. They reported that the president had apparently paid hisdaughter Ivanka as an employee of the Trump Organization and then doubledipped, also paid her as a consultant to the Trump Organization.Why does that matter? Well, the money that he paid her as a consultant hededucted from his taxes as a business expense, and that may sound like anarcane little bit of accounting mishegoss, but that`s a kind of a fraudthat other people regularly go to prison for.And now, Trump tax and business records by the millions are in the hands ofstate prosecutors for the first time. Prosecutors who are reportedlyinvestigating him for tax fraud, bank fraud, insurance fraud.Now, lots of questions remain as to why federal prosecutors did not pursueMr. Trump for prosecution after they named him as individual-1, thisundecided co-conspirator, in the federal case for which Michael Cohen wentto prison. Lots of questions remain as to what happened to the culpabilityof individual one in that case, let alone the president`s business andthose who signed off on those bogus checks to Michael Cohen, which werereally repayments for the campaign finance felonies he was committing butwere disguised to look like business expenses.One of the things that Merrick Garland is going to have to sort out when heis confirmed as the nation`s next attorney general is why his predecessor,William Barr, personally spent weeks leaning on prosecutors at SDNY to tryto get them to go easy on that case, and then Barr ultimately fired theU.S. attorney in charge of that office. Merrick Garland is going to have tosort that out. The solution to that can`t be, don`t do it again. Thesolution for that has to be accountability for hose who abused the JusticeDepartment and the justice process in ways that were designed to shield thepresident from accountability if that is, in fact, what happened there.But what`s happened here, what the Supreme Court set in motion today issomething that does not involve federal prosecutors in that whole SDNYmess. These are state prosecutors, and their case is moving forward andthere really is now, as "The Times" puts it today, the startling prospectof a criminal trial of a former U.S. president.We, the public, will not get to see these millions of pages that aregetting handed over now. We won`t see them unless and until there arecriminal charges filed in this case and they surface as evidence in thatcase. The closest we can get now is maybe to talk to the reporters for "TheNew York Times" who have themselves seen more information like this thanany other civilian we can talk to, reporters who, in fact, won the PulitzerPrize for their reporting on exactly this scandal.One of those reporters is Susanne Craig, investigative reporter for "TheNew York Times". She joins us now.Ms. Craig, it`s nice of you to make time to be here for us tonight. Good tosee you.SUSANNE CRAIG, INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER, THE NEW YORK TIMES: Good to seeyou.MADDOW: From what you understand of the scope of the subpoena that was thebasis of the Supreme Court ruling today, do you think that prosecutors areabout to get their hands on a subset of what you and your colleagues saw at"The Times" or do you think they`re getting considerably more than what youguys were able to see?CRAIG: When it comes to the tax returns, they`re going to get a subset.They`re going to see eight years of the tax returns and we had over twodecades of the tax returns, so in that sense, they`re going to be seeingless. But they`re getting just an entire universe more of information interms of other documents that have been subpoenaed that could be reallycritical to actually making the case, and that includes communicationbetween Donald Trump and his accounts, audited financial statements,communication that has gone back and forth and a whole other array ofdocuments that are going to be produced that sort of explain sort of whatwent into the taxes in a lot more detail.MADDOW: In terms of the communications between the president and hisbusiness and the accounting firm or, indeed, the communications amongpeople at the accounting firm who were working on this account, why wouldthose be so valuable potentially to prosecutors who are looking to try touncover evidence of the kind of white collar fraud that I just described?CRAIG: When you say tax returns (ph) they`re really important, but they`resort of top line. So, by using an example, there`s a lot of questions --and you mentioned it about the payment to Stormy Daniels and otherpotential hush money that was paid. We still have the tax returns. Thosepayments aren`t itemized but there`s a lot of places those payments couldgo.For example, legal fees is a likely one and they could have been put into aline where, you know, legal fees are a tax deduction but they`re notitemized on a tax return. But prosecutors could now get really detailedinformation that goes exactly to what was in those legal fees and theycould find something there. So that`s one really clear example of wherethey`re probably going to look right away. They can get all of that.They`re also going to see communication back and forth, so you`re going tosee, you know, the decisions that were made about what to file, what didthe Trump Organization or Donald Trump tell his accountants, were theremisrepresentations there. So, a lot of things are really important and thepieces that go into it.We did a story in 2018 where we found tax fraud that Donald Trump hadcommitted in the 1990s. We did that by piecing together financialstatements, bank statements, general ledgers, public information, but itwas a whole, you know, kind of puzzle that we had to put together.Financial statement -- or tax returns are kind of your best case whenyou`re submitting to the IRS. There`s actually a line where you can say, Iaccepted a bribe. People don`t usually fill it in, but it is usually you`renot filing something that`s just apparently illegal.MADDOW: Susanne, one of the reasons I wanted to talk to you today wasseeing your reaction to this Supreme Court ruling. One of the things youtalked about as a potentially sort of dangerous area for the presidentmight be these consulting fees that he paid to his daughter, Ivanka Trump.You also pointed out that there are a lot of unanswered questions aboutsomething that happened in 2016 where the president, when he was runningfor president, that his campaign was sort of low on funds and you and yourcolleagues were able to report that he engineered a big cash windfallhimself that appeared to originate with a Las Vegas hotel.I wonder if you could walk us through sort of both of those concerns, theLas Vegas issue and the Ivanka issue in terms of what the potentialpitfalls might be there for the president?CRAIG: Well, let`s start with the payments, the consulting payments toIvanka Trump. What is interesting about this, she got a lot of money forconsulting payments. We don`t know the totality of it. We were able tospecifically identify some of it.The question there is she was an executive at the company, so why is shegetting consulting payments. That could be a potentially illegal issue forthem there. I think they`ll be looking at her siblings. Did they also getthese consulting fees?What did they do for that since they were already on the payroll at theTrump Organization that warranted these special payments?And then at the Las Vegas hotel, very interesting. In 2016 he got severalone-time really outsized cash payments, more than $20 million that we couldsee flowing from a hotel in Vegas that he co-owns with another individualto companies that Donald Trump alone controls, and then they went out asjust huge cash distributions in the middle of the election.He has said that there are agreements underpinning these. We couldidentify, you know, a couple of the payments where there was an agreement,others we`re not sure. We haven`t seen those agreements so we don`t know,and I think it is one of the things that probably investigators are goingto look at when they can get in and start to understand what`s there.You know, let`s see the agreement. What did he tell his accountants aboutit? They were very unusual and it was $20 million, $30 million coming tohim, you know, during 2016 when he was, you know, his campaign was runninglow on cash.MADDOW: It`s amazing that we had a candidate for president, ultimately asuccessful candidate for president who engineered a mysterious $20 millionor $30 million payment to himself in the middle of his campaign and all ofthese years later, it is still a total black box. Susanne --(CROSSTALK)CRAIG: No, those were -- they were shock --MADDOW: Go ahead.CRAIG: No, they were shocking to see when we could actually trace themoney through, and it was significant amounts of money that we couldn`treally explain and they wouldn`t provide us with the underlying agreementsthat they said existed for these just massive cash infusions that suddenlycame to him just as he needed money.MADDOW: One of the things that I have always found difficult about thisstory from beginning to end, having read every word of your reporting onthis, having read a whole bunch of books that touch on this subject, havingfollowed it so closely, is that I feel like I`m at a disadvantage becauseI`m not sure how bad the context is in which he appears to have been a badactor.Again, I`m not supposing any criminal behavior by the president. I realizethis is an open investigation, no charges have been filed. He, of course,denies any wrongdoing.But it is my impression that the New York high-end real estate market issort of scummie and gray area enough in terms of legality and moneylaundering and all sorts of gross stuff that the president might be a sortof normal actor for New York city real estate standards, and that it`stherefore hard for me to understand whether his behavior will be seen asessentially normal for a gross pseudo illegal area of business or whetherwhat he`s done really stands out even in that sector?CRAIG: Well, I think New York real estate, they do get a lot of taxdeductions, but that`s one thing. I mean the things that we`re talkingabout are much different than that. Were there payments, potentially hushmoney paid to women so that they wouldn`t talk and used as a tax deduction?That has nothing to do with being a real estate developer in New York.You know, so there`s a lot of things that are outside of that. I mean we`vetalked about the appraisals, and there`s been a lot of attention on that,and that`s going to be one thing that`s going to be interesting to watch.And, you know, when you look at that, I mean it is not an easy case. Peoplewho use appraisals, they usually rely on experts, they hire an appraiser.So you hire a professional, so they can point to that and say, we relied onprofessional advice.What they`re going to be looking for in cases like that is did Donald Trumpgo and shop for appraisals until he found the one he liked? We`ve seen thatplenty of times in New York where people do that, that`s one example thatfits into what you`re saying.All we can see on a lot of things when we look at tax information is thefinal appraisal that arrives. Cy Vance in New York will be trying to findout did he go appraisal shopping or did he put undue pressure on theappraiser.MADDOW: Susanne Craig, investigative reporter for "The New York Times,"the only -- one of the only humans on Earth who could preview for us whatthese prosecutors are about to get their hands on. Thanks for helping usunderstand. It`s good to see you.CRAIG: Thanks for having me. Good to see you, too.MADDOW: All right. We have much more ahead tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: "The New York Times" wins the prize for the most eloquent summaryof today`s plot twist involving the potential criminal liability, potentialcriminal trial of a former president of the United States for the firsttime in U.S. history."The Times" saying today, quote, the Supreme Court`s order set in motion aseries of events that could lead to the startling possibility of a criminaltrial of a former U.S. president. They win the eloquence summary.But the prize for brevity today goes to the New York prosecutor whoseoffice learned today that the Supreme Court had decisively cleared the wayfor something that president Trump fought for a very long time and foughtvery hard to try to block from happening. Former President Trump`s taxesand financial records will be handed over to a grand jury.Upon receiving the Supreme Court`s ruling clearing the way for that today,District Attorney Cy Vance`s response was three words. He said, quote: thework continues, period.Dan Alonso was Cy Vance`s top deputy for four years at that prosecutor`soffice. If anybody can tell us what today`s plot twist means for Mr.Vance`s investigation into Donald Trump and what this may mean for theformer president, Mr. Alonso is my bet.Joining us is Dan Alonso. He`s a former federal prosecutor and a former NewYork prosecutor who did serve as chief assistant D.A. under Cy Vance.Mr. Alonso, it`s a real pleasure to have you with us tonight. Thanks formaking the time.DAN ALONSO, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: Thank you.MADDOW: I am not a lawyer and I want to give you a chance first to set mestraight if there is anything that I have explained about this court rulingand its implications that strikes you wrong or you think I might havegotten the wrong way around.ALONSO: No, I think you got it pretty much right, and your previous guestobviously is incredibly well-versed in this stuff. So you got it right. Toa certain extent we are all speculating a little bit, right? It`s educatedspeculation.We know from the D.A. and some statements made in court and we know fromsome of the great reporting that`s been done that there may be six to eightareas of inquiry that they are tracking down. But we can`t know, you know,whether they have smoking guns, whether they can really prove intent todefraud, as Susanne was saying.So there are definitely a lot of questions to be answered, but I would saythat today`s development is huge, not just because it is significant butalso because they probably bought themselves millions of pages to have tosift through now.MADDOW: When you say six to eight areas of inquiry, and this beingpotential huge consequences, how serious are the crimes that arepotentially implicated here? Obviously, again, there have been no charges.The president and his business deny all wrongdoing and we won`t knowanything about what the grand jury has done until they present evidence incourt, if they ever do.But given what has been publicly reporting about what they are looking atand the types of allegations that have been made by people who knowsomething about these business practices, are these the sorts of things forwhich people get a fine and, you know, sort of a slap on the wrist, or arethese potentially serious charges?ALONSO: I mean, look, as with so many things in the law, they are -- itdepends. So, obviously, there are very many serious charges that they`reconsidering. Just the fact that they`re saying the words "insurance fraud,""tax fraud," "bank fraud," those are all serious charges.Now, do they require time in prison? Only at the high end, so we would haveto know whether the loss was high enough to require a judge to putwhomever, you know, behind bars. You know, lower level felonies don`trequire it but they do permit it.So we really need to know how much loss they can prove, whether that`s taxloss or loss to the banks or loss to insurance companies or intended loss.We can -- once we know that, we can start to figure it out.But I would say all of these are at least potentially felonies, so I wouldsay that by itself makes them quite serious.MADDOW: And, Dan, in terms of what you know about the operations of thisoffice, it`s one thing for us in the journalism world and the citizens totalk about millions of pages being handed over, terabytes full of data. Butfrom a prosecutor`s perspective and from the perspective of people tryingto put together potentially felony charges here, how long does it take togo through something like that? I mean it sounds like kind of a life`swork, and presumably you need certain people quarterbacking it andorganizing other people to work on it, delegating certain pieces out.How big a job is this? How much time do you expect that much paper work,how much time you expect prosecutors to take going through it?ALONSON: Well, on one hand it is an enormous job. If this happened when Iwas starting out as a prosecutor 30 years ago, I`d say the sky is the limiton how long it would take. But today, the D.A. and the consultant he hashired have serious data analytics tools that can be used to sort throughwhat they have to quickly do the kinds of searches that will get them to,you know, separate the wheat from the chaff pretty quickly.Those are -- those start out as simple word searches and number searches,but they involve artificial intelligence. So I think that they will be ableto do this, you know, relatively quickly. You know, this is verycomplicated. The New York real estate industry is extremely complicated tobegin with, so they have experts guiding them on how that works and how allthese, you know, 500 or so LLCs work together.But I think at the end of the day they`re really going to be -- you know,right now they already know what they want to look for, so they`re going tostart there, and then they`ll do the sort of bigger sifting through thestuff. So it will take a while, for sure, but it is not an impossible task,not in 2021.MADDOW: Dan, there`s also been some very interesting reporting in recentdays that the office has brought in a very prominent former federalprosecutor and high-level white collar defense attorney, a man named MarkPomerantz whose real pedigree is in New York law, and he is going to beinvolved in the Trump investigation only, signed on as a special assistantD.A. in the office for that purpose.There`s also very recent reporting that Mr. Pomerantz recently within thelast few days, interviewed, re-interviewed, Michael Cohen, the president`sformer lawyer who, of course, went to prison for these campaign financefelonies and other charges and has made a lot of serious allegations aboutthe president that seem to track at least somewhat with these tax fraud,bank fraud, insurance fraud allegations that we`ve heard in publicreporting describing the conditions of the investigation.What do you think of the appointment of Pomerantz and does it surprise youthat he is talking again to Michael Cohen? Is Michael Cohen going to end upbeing a valuable witness here?ALONSO: Well, for sure you said it correctly. Pomerantz is a prominentlawyer, what we call a heavy hitter, so that`s good thing because he will,you know, have seen cases of this magnitude before in civil and criminalcontext. I will put in a plug for my former colleagues. The office alreadyhas some fantastic assistant das that have been working on this case for awhile.So I think even without Mark Pomerantz, the case would have been in goodhands. I think that only enhances it to have him in the case.In terms of Michael Cohen, very interesting. So, you know, I actuallywatched the Cohen hearing today when he testified before Congress, and someof the attacks that were made by the Republicans will probably be made ifhe testifies in a trial, assuming that Trump or someone close to him isindicted, and I thought those -- you know, if handled correctly by theprosecutor, those will ring hollow. Basically, the attack is, you know,this is a perjuring witness. This is somebody who lied to Congress. Howdare we have as a witness somebody who lied to Congress?Well, okay, but that doesn`t end the story. I mean I have put witnesses onthe stand who have committed perjury, who asked others to commit perjury,and that`s not the question. If that was the question, then we wouldn`t putthem on the stand. The question is not whether they lied before, it iswhether they`re telling the truth now.And so, you`ve got to ask yourself, well, why did Michael Cohen lie toCongress? Well, it was obvious to protect Donald Trump. It is not likeDonald Trump corrected the testimony afterwards, even though he presumablyknew the truth. So, you have to ask yourself, you know, is whatever MichaelCohen is going to say corroborated by other evidence, and that`s a lot ofwhat they`re doing now by pouring through these documents, other evidenceand other documents and other witnesses, too.So, no, I think Michael Cohen could be a significant witness but I think hehas warts, so it`s got to be a very careful prosecutor who puts everythingout on the table, warts and all, so the jury can see it all. But I do thinkthat he could be a persuasive witness if properly corroborated.MADDOW: And, you know, nothing corroborates like millions of pages ofdocuments that the president fought tooth and nail to try to keep hidden.Dan Alonso, former federal prosecutor, veteran of the New York stateprosecutor`s office, that`s Cy Vance`s team, and Cy Vance`s team that justgot this incredible, decisive ruling from the Supreme Court today. Dan,thanks very much for helping us understand. I appreciate it.ALONSO: Thanks so much for having me.MADDOW: All right, we have a lot more to get to this busy, busy Mondaynight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFEID MALE: We`re going to start off with a nice easy warm-up,start jumping jacks. Nice, easy jumping jacks, everyone. We`re going tohave a lot of fun today.I don`t even know what to do right now, I`m so nervous. I`m like, oh, myGod, Michelle Obama.The fact that our first lady is so into physical fitness and now we`ve gother on "The Biggest Loser" working out, that could not be any cooler.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Trainer Bob very nervous. There`s the first lady with that groupof people, working out, Michelle Obama, April 2012, encouraging Americanfamilies to get moving, to be fit and healthy. Watching the first lady inaction like that for a good cause, trying to encourage people doingcrunches and lunges and jumping jacks, that was inspiring to a lot ofpeople.This guy, though, had a different take. His reaction was this. Quote, didyou notice that while Michelle Obama is working out on TV, she is sweatingon the East Room`s carpet? I`m just saying. Dot, dot, dot.The guy who tweeted that is named Ric Grenell. Back in 2012 when he tweetedthat, he was a Republican operative who had a very public habit of tweetingmean and frequently sexist things about the Obamas and about their kids,also about then Vice President Joe Biden, about prominent Democrats.He would also sometimes use his Twitter account to go after members of hisown party as well. He repeatedly attacked former Republican speaker of theHouse, Newt Gingrich. He liked to go after Newt Gingrich`s wife, he wouldmake fun of her hair, that was kind of his level of insults, insultingpeople`s looks and their weight, attacking their families, particular venomfor women in the public eye. He`s a real nice guy.This became a little sticky, kind of for Ric Grenell when President DonaldTrump surveyed the American landscape and decided that above all otherAmericans, the best pick for ambassador to Germany would be that guy, RicGrenell. There was talk when the nomination was announced that Grenell`spast behavior online might disqualify him from getting confirmed in theSenate because it was so mean and sexist and petty and ad hominem andgross.It turned out to be no problem, though, really, ended up being smoothsailing. Mr. Grenell and his archive of mean tweets were confirmed in theSenate with bipartisan support, with votes to spare, not a big deal,apparently.Right now, the current president, President Biden, is dealing with aconfirmation speed bump for one of his nominees, though. Her name is NeeraTanden. She is President Biden`s nominee to run the Office of Managementand Budget. And her nomination drew immediate complaints from Republicansin the Senate who complained that her past tweets about them were mean.They said her tweets about Republican lawmakers were too combative. Theysaid her old tweets about them long before she was a nominee would make itimpossible for her to work with Congress. They would never work with hergiven what she had tweeted.From the start, it looked as if Neera Tanden would receive few if any votesto the Republicans to confirm her for the job at a 50/50 Senate. If everyRepublican votes against her, Neera Tanden would need every Democrat tovote in her favor in order to get confirmed.On Friday, Democratic Senator Joe Manchin announced that he won`t vote toconfirm Neera Tanden. He said that it was because of her partisanstatements on Twitter. And they would have -- he said those statementswould have a toxic and detrimental impact on her work.Today, Maine Republican Senator Susan Collins also announced that NeeraTanden`s tweets are a problem for her as well. She says they demonstratethat Ms. Tanden does not have the temperament to lead the OMB, which is apeculiar decision on the part of those senators, given that both of thosesenators had absolutely no problem supporting someone with a hyper-partisanTwitter warring history in the past.Susan Collins and Joe Manchin both voted to confirm Ric Grenell in 2017,the guy who used his Twitter account to attack the sitting -- the sittingpresident`s children, to mock a woman`s hair, to attack all sorts of womenfor their appearance, to attack Michelle Obama for sweating on the EastRoom carpet.But for them, Neera Tanden`s criticism of Republican senators, that`scaustic and inappropriate and so she must be barred from a Senate-confirmedposition. Ric Grenell is fine. Neera Tanden, uh-huh.They`re not the only senators to announce they will be voting no on theTanden confirmation. Ohio Senator Rob Portman, who also voted to confirmRic Grenell, he announced his opposition to Neera Tanden. So did UtahSenator Mitt Romney.There`s still time to find one Republican, any Republican vote for Ms.Tanden. Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska was notably quiet onthe prospect. But until then, until a Democrat -- a Republican senatordecides he or she will vote for Ms. Tanden, Tandem`s nomination to lead OMBis hanging by a thread tonight because of the absolutely outrageous andovert double standard to which she is being subjected by even at least oneDemocratic senator who was happy to excuse much worse behavior than hersfor a male nominee in a previous administration but has discovered some newstandard to keep her from getting his votes.Republicans have done it. At least one Democrat is doing it. That mightmake the difference here.The Biden administration says they remain in full support of her nominationand they`re not pulling it.Watch this space.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: A couple of developments worth watching on the aftermath of theJanuary 6th attack on the Capitol.Back on December 14th, Wisconsin`s state electors met to finalize theirstate`s ten votes for Joe Biden for the Electoral College, but despite thefact that Biden clearly won Wisconsin, a separate group of Republicans inthe state decided that they would try to appoint themselves as Wisconsin`sstate electors.It was weird, right? Biden won the state. It was therefore his electors whowould cast Wisconsin`s votes for the Electoral College, but theseRepublicans, including the state party chairman, they just decided theywould name themselves anyway.And then they started forging documents. They signed bogus certificates ofelection. They sent fake documents to federal and state officialsproclaiming that Trump had actually won the ten electoral votes fromWisconsin when, in fact, they were all won by Joe Biden.Well, that was a weird moment in the post-election craziness in theRepublican Party, but now, lawyers for a Wisconsin union, for SCIU inWisconsin, have sent a complaint to the Milwaukee county district attorney,to state prosecutors in Wisconsin, requesting that a criminal investigationbe opened into those acts.The union has written this letter to the Milwaukee County D.A. and saysthese Republicans violated six state laws, forgery, falsely assuming to actas a public officer, misconduct, conspiracy to commit criminal acts.Something to keep an eye out of Wisconsin.Meanwhile, tomorrow at the national level on Capitol Hill, we`re going tohave the first big investigative hearing on what happened on January 6th.It is a joint oversight hearing conducted by the Homeland SecurityCommittee and the rules committee. And we`re going to hear from a number ofofficials who should be interesting witnesses.The sergeant of arms from the house and the sergeant of arms in the Senateboth resigned in the immediate aftermath of the attack. They will testifytomorrow as well as the former chief of the Capitol police who alsoresigned after the attack. Those officials as well as the acting chief ofpolice for the D.C. police department, they are all going to face questionsfrom senators in tomorrow`s hearing. It is called examining the January 6thattack on the U.S. Capitol. It should be one to watch.Watch this space.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: That is going to do it for us tonight. I will tell you -- tomorrowis going to be a big news day particularly in Washington, second day ofconfirmation hearings for Attorney General Merrick Garland. Today`s firstday of hearings was very newsy, tomorrow should be a big deal.Also confirmation hearings tomorrow for Xavier Becerra for healthsecretary, Deb Haaland for interior secretary. She`d be the first NativeAmerican cabinet secretary in U.S. history if confirmed.A lot going on. This is going to be a really busy week, tomorrow inparticular. I`ll see you again tomorrow night.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>