Summary:CDC Director Rochelle Walensky is interviewed. House Democrats aregoing to vote on that measure as to whether or not Congresswoman MarjorieTaylor Greene should be on House committees.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: All right. One of the big questions facingDemocrats in the Senate is whether they should eliminate the filibuster.That`s the topic of the latest episode of my podcast, "Why is thishappening?", where Senate insider Adam Jentleson lays out how we got thefilibuster in the first place, why it became Mitch McConnell`s go-to move.Find out wherever you get your podcasts.That`s ALL IN for this evening."THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" starts right now.Good evening, Rachel.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: Any budget committee staffer that included youwould make me sign up for that budget.HAYES: It`s such an amazing compliment to get on national television. Youwould make a good budget committee staffer.MADDOW: Budget committee staffer.HAYES: Pardon me, felt a little serotonin, thank you. Good.MADDOW: Also, I am sending you some personal financial information laterthat I would like you to help me with.HAYES: Perfect.MADDOW: Because you alone could get that compliment.All right, thanks, my friend. Much appreciated.And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.Here`s an interesting thing -- sort of a personal thing, but also a newsthing. Right before President Trump was impeached the first time, Ipublished a book called "Blowout" and the weird surprising to me thingabout "Blowout" is that tended up being oddly well timed. I had no idea itwas going to be well-timed when I set out to write it, but that`s how itlanded. It was a book about the oil and gas industry and the politicalpower and geopolitical power of that industry.And a big chunk of that book was about all of the craziness and corruptionin Ukraine. And, of course, then, right at the time the book came out, allthe craziness and corruption in Ukraine ended up being the setting, likethe playing field for what President Trump got impeached for the first timehe got impeached.I did not intend it to land that way. It was fortuitous and I hope helpfulto people trying to figure out that landscape while we were looking at thatfirst impeachment.Now, of course, Mr. Trump is being impeached for a second time. And it`skind of uncanny, a lot of the things I wrote about in that book that cameout during the first Trump impeachment, they`re sort of coming home toroost now. The whole reason I wrote that book is because I think we werepretty consistently underestimating the sway of this one industry, how muchsway the oil and gas industry has over politics and whole governments, bothhere in the United States and around the world.And so I thought there was -- I thought it would be helpful. I thoughtthere was a need for kind of a rip-roaring round the world explainer forhow that one industry can sometimes explain a lot of what otherwise doesn`tmake sense about politics. If something is happening in politics andgeopolitics that doesn`t make sense on the service and what we`re taught tolook for in terms of political currents, it helps to look at this industryand see if maybe they`re the hidden hand there. Particularly when politicsfails or when governments are really bad, the whole book was like, hey,this is a place to look.And, of course, it`s one thing to say here`s the hidden hand at work here.Here`s the unacknowledged power that`s really making things possible orimpossible that`s really calling the shots here. But it`s that furtherthing to understand that dynamic well enough so that when that hidden handweakens, when that power behind the throne collapses for some reason, youcan anticipate what kinds of changes that might mean. Understanding thereal power at work means knowing what might happen when that power goessouth, when it shuts off.So this book "Blowout" when it came out in the first Trump impeachment, Imeant it to be sort of a heads-up for the oil and gas industry being a sortof secretly powerful political entity. But also a heads-up that if and whenthe bottom ever fell out of that industry, be prepared. Be ready to go,because when the bottom falls out of that industry, a lot of things aregoing to change. A lot of things that they as an industry were blocking aresuddenly going to become possible. A lot of bad government, for example, isgoing to fall apart, once the power behind bad government loses its zhoosh.That was the sort of warning I was trying to sound about the oil and gasindustry during the first Trump impeachment.Now, of course, we`re in the second Trump impeachment. And what do youknow? The bottom actually has fallen out of that industry. I mean, rightafter "Blowout" was published, royalty after Trump impeachment numero uno,the coronavirus crisis hits worldwide. That immediately walloped the oiland gas industry like nothing ever in its history has ever hit them before.The floor just dropped below them.At one point early on in the coronavirus crisis, the price of a barrel ofoil was negative. It cost less than zero dollars to buy a barrel of oil.Meaning if you owned a barrel of oil, not only could you not chargesomebody money for taking it from you, you would actually have to paysomebody to take that barrel of oil away from you because it was worthnegative dollars.And over the course of the pandemic, it hasn`t really gotten better. Imean, the price of oil has pinged around, but it`s a disaster for thatindustry. Yesterday, ExxonMobil just posted its worst quarterly earnings in40 years. I mean, not long ago, Exxon was the most profitable corporationin the history of corporations, for multiple years running. This quarter,they lost over $20 billion. And this is now four straight quarters for themlosing money.This was the richest company on earth by a mile forever and ever. Nowthey`re a company that loses more than $61 million every day they stay inoperation. They`re losing $61 million a day.This was the headline this morning in the business section of "The New YorkTimes." after a bruising year, the oil industry confronts a diminishedfuture. Big oil companies lost billions in 2020 because of the pandemic.They face broad questions now about how they will adapt to climate changeand regulations.So that book that I wrote "Blowout" tried to document how the oil and gasindustry has undercut democracy, hollowed out democracy, both in parts ofthe United States and around the world. This is about the strength andincredible financial resources of that industry has stopped us from makingeven the easiest reforms and fixes when it comes to the climate.Well, now that mighty industry is sucking wind and so stuff is changing. Itseems like a whole new world is possible. I mean, listen to this fromtoday. This was Senator Chuck Schumer who as of today is running the UnitedStates senate. This is him announcing today what they`re getting to work onin the United States Senate, now that the Democrats have control as of dayone.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Senate Democrats are not going to waste anytime taking on the biggest challenges facing our country and our planet.It`s long past time for the Senate to take a leading role in combating theexistential threat of our time, climate. Climate change touches virtuallyevery aspect of our economy, and involves virtually every aspect of publicpolicy.So as the Biden administration prepares a whole of government approach tocombating climate change, the Democratic majority will pursue a whole ofSenate approach as well.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: A whole of Senate approach. Now that the Democrats are in controlof the senate, he`s assigning every committee in the U.S. Senate to startmoving climate legislation. They`re moving on it.This past week, the Biden administration unveiled multiple efforts they`regoing to pursue all at once, including through executive action, to makethe country take a big shift on climate -- long, long overdue, easymeasures.Today, Pete Buttigieg, one of the best communicators in a generation ofDemocratic talent was sworn in as secretary of transportation in the Bidenadministration. Among other things, Secretary Buttigieg will be overseeingthe transformation of the huge fleet of all federal vehicles to allelectric vehicles. General Motors just announced they will no longer makeinternal combustion engines for their cars and SUVs within the next 15years.And I`ll tell you right now, the best super bowl ad you`re going to see onSunday is the Will Ferrell Aquafina Kenan Thompson ad about GM shifting toelectric cars and this ground breaking new battery they`re putting in like30 different models of cars. Their whole fleet is going to be electric inless than 15 years.It`s happening. It`s happening. All at once, and now very quickly. When theworst opponents of us getting it together on climate are collapsingeconomically or are so rocked back on their heels economically andpolitically, honestly, that some of even the big oil companies are tryingto decide now if they might switch sides and maybe try to be good guys onthis issue for once. When your opposition collapses like that, it`s time torun the field.And a Democratic president is in office who is committed to this as a toppriority, and the American people voted the Democrats into control, boththe United States house and the United States Senate, when Democratscampaigned on the fact they were going to move on this issue, it`shappening. And it`s happening in part because the bad guys on this issuehave collapsed. It is happening in part because of the suddenly saggingfortunes of what previously, what until a year ago was the richest, mostdestructive industry on the planet.That`s what that book that I wrote "Blowout" is about. The full title is"Blowout: Corrupted Democracy, Rogue State Russia, and the Richest, MostDestructive Industry on Earth."And apparently, this book is going to come out again every single time thatDonald Trump gets impeached. Came out in hard back when he was gettingimpeached the first time, and now this week, it`s just come out inpaperback for the first time, if he gets impeached a third time, I`ll haveto release it on a wax disc.The audio book was also nominated for a Grammy, if that`s of interest incase you would prefer to hear it rather than read it. But anyway, if you goto MSNBC.com/blowout, it`s all there in case you are interested.But it feels a little uncanny. And as I mentioned, today, Republicans andDemocrats in the Senate did finally sign the rules that allow the Democratsto take charge there. Take charge and start running all the committees.Democrats won those two Georgia Senate races nearly a month ago, which iswhat gave them 50 senators, which is what gave them control of the Senate,but Republicans have dragged their feet in actually allowing the Democratsto take over and start working in the Senate. It was a week and a half agothat Mitch McConnell, the top Republican in the Senate, actually droppedwhatever his supposed objections were that were the excuse for him notallowing Democrats to take over, but even after he publicly dropped thatobjection last Monday, he still dragged it out another week and a half. Itwasn`t until today that he finally relented and agreed to sign over powerto the Democrats.So it is a month late today that Democrats started running the U.S. Senate.I mean, they should have 24 months in power in the Senate until the nextelection. But Republican Senator Mitch McConnell succeeded in eating one ofthose 24 months. So they`re only going to have 23 months to get done whatthey want to do. Which gives them, I think, quite -- permission, is thatthe right word, gives them reason at least to go as fast as possible.The Republicans stole a month from them, so now they get to go double time.Now they get to start. And on the other side of the capitol, in the House,it`s, of course, a real split screen moment right now. On one side of thescreen, there`s House Democrats moving ahead with the whole governingthing, voting to move forward President Biden`s big COVID relief bill, tostart working on the legislation as of tonight.On the other side of the screen are House Republicans who have spent allday and now all night having a big fight within their party about whichRepublican members of Congress they should punish for unconscionable acts,and how they should be punished and exactly what counts as unconscionableanymore.Tonight, Republican Congresswoman Liz Cheney of Wyoming, she`s thirdranking Republican in the House leadership, she survived a vote among hercolleagues on whether they were going to oust her from leadership becauseshe was one of ten house Republicans who voted to impeach President Trumpfor his role in inciting the violent attack on the capitol January 6th.Even though she survived the vote, dozens of her house Republicancolleagues tonight voted that she should be kicked out of her leadershipjob for daring to cross Donald Trump. But they could not drum up enoughvotes to get it done, so Liz Cheney will stay in her role as the numberthree house Republican.And make of that what you will. Only ten Republicans in the house voted toimpeach Donald Trump, but tonight, 145 Republicans voted to keep Liz Cheneyin leadership despite her vote.Tonight`s vote was also a secret ballot, so maybe Republicans are more okaywith impeachment when they don`t have to answer publicly for their votes.Or maybe lots of house Republicans just secretly like Liz Cheney but theydon`t want to talk about it publicly. Like I said, make of it what youwill.But the other colleague of theirs who House Republicans are grappling withtonight is, of course, the freshman congresswoman from Georgia, MarjorieTaylor Greene, and if you are a living, breathing sentient human who hasconsumed any news coverage in the past few days, you are more than likelyfamiliar with Congresswoman Greene and all the things unearthed about herand her views and her public statements recently from harassing and mockinga teenage survivor of the Parkland school shooting, because Ms. Greenebelieves that shooting was a hoax with actors and nobody really died, toendorsing social media posts that advocate putting a bullet in HouseSpeaker Nancy Pelosi`s head, to propounding a conspiracy theory that theCalifornia wildfires were not a naturally occurring thing or even theproduct of normal arson, no, in fact, she says they were started by lasersfrom space controlled by shadowy Jewish groups. It should really be lookedinto.All of which comes on top of what was already famous about her, that she`san energetic adherent and proponent of the QAnon conspiracy theory which isthe same conspiracy about Satan-worshiping, pedophile, child-blood-drinkinglizard people that motivated lots of the rioters who attacked the capitolon January 6th, that`s a theory she has propounded, a theory that amongother things predicts a violent resurrection of the Trump presidency andthe public execution of hundreds of prominent Democrats and celebrities andfigures from the news media, public executions. They want them in public.They want everybody to see them.In the wake of the January 6th attacks on Democratic members of Congress,they say they feel unsafe around Congresswoman Greene, including one whoasked to have her office moved away from Marjorie Greene`s office out ofconcern for her safety after a couple run-ins with her. And as you know,this doesn`t really have to be hard for House Republicans. They do have aplaybook they wrote themselves for handling something like this. A playbookthey have used very recently.Only two years ago that Congressman Steve King of Iowa found himselfwondering aloud to a "New York Times" reporter, what`s so wrong with theword white nationalist and white supremacist. Why did though become such abad thing? And even though Steve king had been saying stuff like that andacting that way forever, this time, Republicans decided they just hadenough.And the House Republican leader, Kevin McCarthy, got his caucus to stripSteve king of all his committee assignments. He was kicked off all hiscommittee said, treated as a pariah from there on out. He had no actualwork to do. He ended up twiddling his thumbs in the House for the lest ofthe term and there was a Republican primary against him in which he wassounded defeated and that was it for Steve King`s political career. Theyknow how to do this.And Democrats now control the house. They basically said to Republicans,look, you know how to do this. Take care of this problem with MarjorieTaylor Greene saying Nancy Pelosi should be shot and sandy hook didn`thappen and Parkland didn`t happen and Jews are controlling space thataccount for the wildfires.I mean, take care of this problem you have with Marjorie Taylor Greene theway you did with Steve King. She wasn`t musing aloud about whether wordsare good or bad the way Steve king was. She has been publicly propounded atheory that not only led to a violent attack on the capitol, but that atits heart is about executing Democrats, for being Democrats. So Democratshave been saying, listen, do what you did with Steve King here. Strip herof her committee assignments or I guess we`ll have to do it for you?Democrats have been particularly incensed that Republicans put Ms. Greeneon the Education Committee, someone who believed mass school shootings inrecent years have been a hoax and no kids really died. Put her on theEducation Committee.But this time around, House Republicans have not been able to bringthemselves to use the Steve King playbook. Maybe it was the supportivephone calls that Congresswoman Greene claims to have received from DonaldTrump, but House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, after having met withher yesterday, in which she was reportedly not at all contrite in thatmeeting about anything she said, House Leader Kevin McCarthy put out astatement tonight that did not announce any sort of action on CongresswomanGreene and instead attacks Democrats for their criticism of her.And so tonight, the house rules committee approved a resolution that willstrip Congresswoman Greene of her committee assignments. Again, the samepunishment that befell Steve King.The full house is going to vote on that tomorrow. That means all HouseRepublicans will now be forced to go on the record voting to supportMarjorie Taylor Greene or not. Voting to go on the record as to whether ornot you can serve as a Republican member of Congress after calling for theexecution of the speaker of the House.Very few Republican members of Congress are actively defending MarjorieTaylor Greene or any of the things she has said or done. They`re mostlyarguing process. They say if Democrats remove her from her committees,that`s bad. That`s a bad thing for the other party to do because whateverparty controls Congress, that party can then remove the other party`smembers from the committees.The Democrats don`t seem swayed by this argument. Here was rules committeechairman Jim McGovern of Massachusetts at tonight`s hearing.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)REP. JAMES MCGOVERN (D-MA): If the president is going to be that somebodyadvocates putting a bullet in the head of a member of Congress, and if thatis going to be the new determination as to what it takes to throw peopleoff committees, I`m fine with that. I`m fine with that.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Yeah. I`m fine with that. Can we all agree on that? Can we allagree that if you call for putting bullets in the heads of other members ofCongress, that`s the line? Republican members of congress, does that seemlike a reasonable line for you? We`ll set that as the threshold. Is thatokay as a precedent? I guess we`ll find out when all members of the househave to vote on it tomorrow.But House Democrats are trying to walk and chew gum at the same time. Theyhave teed up this vote tomorrow on kicking this radioactive Republicanmember off her committee said. They`re moving ahead on a big COVID reliefbill. They took the first step in passing President Biden`s COVID reliefbill, after President Biden held a phone call with house Democrats todayand hosted Senate Democrats in the Oval Office.His message to them was, act fast and go big. The president reportedlysaying that basically, the main thing Congress has to be worried about withCOVID relief is not doing enough. Not going big enough with this effort,saying they are definitely not going to shrink it down or dilute it, evenif Republicans continue to complain that they don`t like it.And one reason, the main reason the president and Democrats want to go bigis, of course, because they think it`s good policy. It will help the mostAmericans and the most direct and sustainable and robust ways possible.That`s why they don`t want the bill to be less effective than it can be.But the other reason I think they feel comfortable saying let`s go bigright now is that it`s very popular, what they`re trying to do.I mean, President Biden as a brand-new president is pretty popularindividually, but his popularity is nothing compared to the popularity ofthe COVID relief that he and Democrats are pursuing right now.There`s a new Quinnipiac poll out today that finds 68 percent of Americanssupport this $1.9 trillion COVID relief package the president has putforward, 68 percent support. The $1,400 in direct aid stimulus checks thatare a central piece of the package, that`s supported by 78 percent ofAmericans. Ask Americans if they support increasing the federal minimumwage to $15 an hour, something the president has said he wants in the bill,support for that among Americans is at 61 percent.This is a wildly popular COVID relief bill, every aspect of it. And withcongressional Democrats working as of tonight to get it passed into lawwith the Senate putting in motion procedures that will allow them to passit even if every Republican says no, they hate it, that`s what the Bidenadministration is doing legislatively to get the country relief from thehardship imposed by the pandemic to fund vaccination efforts, to getschools to reopen safely, and all this crucial stuff. It`s incrediblypopular, every aspect of this.So, yes, they`re emboldened by mass public support for what they`re doingto not compromise and weaken their proposals, to instead move forward withwhat they want to do, with what they believe is right and what the publicis behind. And it`s, you know, I mean, with the crisis that we`re in withCOVID, it`s clear at least nobody questions why they shouldn`t just bedoing this first, right?And seeing them go ahead, refusing to be slowed down, refusing to be putoff track, that seems appropriate given the size of the challenge and thepublic supports it. But of course, alongside legislation, the other thingPresident Biden is doing is he has to build out a whole new federalgovernment response to COVID because the federal government response thatexisted before the Biden administration took over was such a disaster tothe extent it existed, it was terrible.The Government Accountability Office just released a report today detailinghow bad the Trump administration`s response to COVID was. "Washington Post"report today on that study led with just how horrified the investigatorswere by what they were seeing when they started looking in detail at whatthe Trump administration actually did on COVID.Quote: A government watchdog study from a generally staid audit agencyamounts to a wide reaching condemnation of President Trump`s botchedresponse to the COVID-19 pandemic. The document outlines broad Trumpadministration failures so alarming that the normally circumspect auditorsannounced themselves deeply troubled. That constitutes an anguished cryfrom an office that prides itself on just the facts, dull reports.Among the things that so deeply troubled the government auditors, they kepttelling the Trump administration how many things needed doing that were notgetting done, and the Trump administration just didn`t respond to any ofthat. They didn`t get any better. They didn`t take any action in responseto clear recommendations about stuff they were doing wrong or needed toimprove. They absolutely just blew it all off.They started bad. They got worse over time. Even when they were told thatthere were things specifically they could do to improve, they ignored themand continued to get worse. As we have reported extensively here over theselast months, one of the most heartbreaking and horrifying failures of theTrump administration is what they did to the CDC. Which should be ourlodestar as a country as to who we follow, when we trust, who gives usunassailable public health guidance about how to handle something like acoronavirus pandemic.It should be our lodestar, should be the world` lodestar. CDC has been upuntil this administration, this past administration, they have been thepremier public health agency in the world, the world gold standard. Andwhat the Trump administration did to it was repulsive. For an agency soneeded, for an agency that should have been at its apex of its capacity tomeet the most challenging moment in public health in 100 years, the Trumpadministration cut them off at the knees.The mismatch between what was needed and what they did is revolting. Imean, from the White House reaching down to the level of individualscientists working in the field to assess an outbreak in a South Dakotameat processing plant, telling individual scientists to change theirlanguage so the meat plant wouldn`t actually be told by CDC what theyshould do to keep their workers safe. To burying CDC guidance on how toreopen schools and businesses safely, not letting anyone see it.Having CDC scientific guidance edited by the president`s daughter, IvankaTrump, editing CDC scientific guidance. Really? And Kellyanne Conway, too,because why shouldn`t she?Having a director put in place at CDC who did not protect his agency fromany of that, who did not let it happen, who did not sound the alarm, whodid not resign, who personally bent to the White House`s will and let thescientific work of that once great agency be infected by the White House`snonsense, who carried their water for them, who personally helped themintervene to squash science. That`s what the Trump administration did tothe CDC.That`s a big part of what went wrong with this horrific, horrific pandemicin this country. That is a big part of how we have 4 percent of the world`spopulation and 25 percent of the world`s deaths. So how do you fix that?First thing you do is you hire a new CDC director. When Joe Biden announcedhe had chosen one of the prominent infectious doctors in the country,prominent HIV/AIDS researcher to lead the CDC, the announcement was metwith what can only be described as mass enthusiasm and relief from hercolleagues in the medical field.One of her colleagues at Harvard Medical School summed it up like this:This news has sent me into a sort of public health euphoria. It gives mesuch hope to know someone as kind and fearless as Dr. Rochelle Walenskywill lead our public health agency. Welcome back, CDC.Welcome back, CDC. We need you.The new director of the CDC joins us for the interview here live next.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: The CDC over decades had earned its reputation as the globallyrenowned gold standard for public health research and guidance. But duringthe coronavirus pandemic, this past year, the Trump administration silencedand censored scientists at the CDC, promoted the views of politicalappointees who are unqualified to be making those sort of pronouncement. Itwas a real bastardization of the CDC`s crucial role at a time that weneeded them most.And so, it was clear early on that whoever the new president was going totap to run the agency was going to have to be in charge of not just turningthe tide of the pandemic but also restoring CDC to what it should be, atough task.President Joe Biden has chosen Dr. Rochelle Walensky to run the Centers forDisease Control.Joining us now for the interview is Dr. Walensky.It`s a real honor and a pleasure to have you here. Thank you so much forbeing here.DR. ROCHELLE WALENSKY, DIRECTOR, CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL: Thanks somuch for having me. I`m delighted to be here with you.MADDOW: I am intimidated by the scale of the task ahead of you. Not onlybecause --WALENSKY: Me, too.(CROSSTALK)MADDOW: -- of the crisis that we are in -- good, you`re human.Obviously, the scale of the public challenge, but also the organizationalchallenge that you`ve got given what the CDC has been through for the pastweek.How -- how are you thinking about the task ahead?WALENSKY: You know, as you say, I think it`s a two-pronged task. I have totake care of the people who are doing the hard work. And they have been. Imean, they have been for -- many of them are career public healthofficials, stewards of the health of this nation, and really, of the world.I have to take care of them because they`re doing hard work that is aboutto protect the rest of the country, and that has been working to protectthe rest of the country.In truth, there hasn`t been massive turnover of the wonderful personnel whoare working there. They have been muzzled. They have been beaten down. Butthey`re still there.And they are working hard, long hours. Over 8,000 of them have been workingtowards COVID-19 over the last year, 1,500 of them have been deployed to250 cities across the nation and the world. And they are -- they are stillthere doing -- doing the work of public health and reviewing the scienceand making sure that science gets heard.MADDOW: I feel like I -- I don`t have the same worries that the Trumpadministration will do to you and do to CDC under you that -- the kinds ofproblems that we saw under the Trump administration. And so, I don`t feellike we need to protect CDC and to protect your independence in the waythat needed to happen during the Trump administration.But I also feel like the solution to what we saw happen to your crucialagency over the last year can`t just be, you know, whoo, let`s never dothat again, let`s hope we always have good presidents and we always respectthe guidelines and the future.I mean, are there things that need to change so that those kinds ofproblems don`t happen again? Are there protections that you and yourcolleagues need just in case things take an ugly turn like that again?WALENSKY: Absolutely. I think we need to protect our science. We need tomake sure that there`s no finger hold over the MMWR, over the sciencethat`s produced that we have the final say in that science. I was veryclear before I took the position that they would hear the science from meand it might not be good news all the time, and we had to maintain humilityin terms of what we were learning because science teaches us all the time.We will review the guidance and make sure that there -- the guidance is upto date, that the soft language that might have been there is now turned tothe hard language that the science needs to report. And, you know, quitehonestly, I do think I need to do, you know, not everything was doneperfectly.We need to acknowledge the places where we might have misstepped, where wecan learn from what was done, what might have been done improperly or mighthave -- could have been done better, and we need to review that so the nexttime we`re in this position, we can do better the next time.MADDOW: Let me ask you about the sort of layman`s translation of one ofthe virological things that`s starting to get more and more attention now,and that is the variations and mutations of the virus that seemed to beaffecting its transmissibility, potentially its susceptibility to vaccines.For us, the public, who have been listening to guidance from people likeyou about wearing masks, about social distance, about the other things thatwe can do to try to slow and stop transmission, is there anything that weneed to do differently because of the existence of these variants that wehaven`t already been doing? Is there any sign that any of the public healthguidance we have been given about how to protect ourselves and others mightnot be effective against those -- those variants?WALENSKY: Yeah, it`s a great question. I mean, you hear the word mutation,and everybody thinks of a science fiction movie, right?So we know that viruses mutate. We know that they change their geneticcode, often every time they replicate. MRNA viruses mutate frequently.We expected mutations and we expected variants. Usually when there`s avariant that becomes predominant, it`s because it has some advantage to thevirus, whether it`s because it`s increasingly transmissible, whether it`sbecause it has increased mortality, or because it can escape our vaccinesand our treatments.We know that some of the variants have increased transmissibility. There`sincreasing data that suggests some of the variants, the B117 variant, mayactually be increased -- lead to increased mortality. And the jury is stillout with regard to how these vaccines are going to work with regard --against these variants.We have to be -- you know, follow the science, and we`re learning more andmore about whether our public health measures, our mitigation measures, ourmask wearing, our distancing will -- will be fully effective against thesevariants, but we have every reason to believe that they will. And the morecase reporting that we`re looking at with the variants that are emerging,the more we`re actually finding they were happening when masks anddistancing weren`t happening.So, it`s in fact the same disease, and we believe right now that if youfollow the mask guidance, you follow the distancing guidance, the lack ofgathering, and you don`t gather, that you should be protected against thesevariants. What we know is that they will probably be less forgiving when wedon`t follow that guidance.MADDOW: OK. And do you think that we should expect that there needs to beanother big scientific lift in this country in terms of sequencing thevirus when people do get infected, tracking the variants, and indeed,potentially developing vaccination boosters or vaccination adaptations thataccount for it? Is this going to be a whole -- you know, I feel likescientists got us to the moon in a matter of a very short period of time interms of getting us safe and effective vaccines. Do we now need to go toMars? Do we now -- is it going to be a big, heavy lift to contend with theadditional complications here?WALENSKY: The answer is we don`t know, but we can`t be wrong. And so we`redoing all of those things. We are doing increased sequencing. We haveincreased our sequencing ten-fold just in the last two weeks.We are looking to the -- to Moderna and Pfizer to try to create boostersand vaccines in case we need to go there. Because when we need to be atMars, we need to be almost there when we get going (ph) -- when the timecomes.MADDOW: Dr. Walensky, you said something today at the White House COVIDbriefing about reopening schools, specifically about teachers. You saidteachers don`t necessarily need to be vaccinated for COVID before schoolscan safely reopen. Those comments caused a lot of discussion, frankly a lotof consternation even among a bunch of people that I know.If you don`t mind, I would like to take a quick break right here. I`mwarning you in advance I`m going to ask you about that when we come back ifyou can stick around.WALENSKY: Absolutely.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back with the new director of the CDC,Dr. Rochelle Walensky.Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)WALENSKY: I want to be very clear about schools, which is: yes, ACIP hasput teachers in the 1B category, the category of essential workers. But Ialso want to be clear that there is increasing data to suggest that schoolscan safely reopen, and that that safe reopening does not suggest thatteachers need to be vaccinated in order to reopen safely.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Joining us once again is Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the new directorof the CDC.Dr. Walensky, thank you again for being here. It is a real honor to haveyou.Those comments today at the COVID briefing from the White House caused alot of consternation, got a lot of attention. I think broadly speaking, I`mnot a teacher, but I know a lot of teachers and I feel like teachers areworried that even if kids aren`t necessarily a high risk, if they getinfected at school, many of the teachers feel like they are at high risk.Why isn`t it a prerequisite for safe reopening for teachers to get thevaccine?WALENSKY: Thank you for raising this, and thank you for discussing it.I want to be very clear about what the science shows and what I believe inhow we should prioritize. There`s accumulating data that suggests thatthere is not a lot of transmission that is happening in schools when theproper mitigation measures are taken. When there is masking, when there isdistancing, de-densification of the classroom, ventilation, contacttracing, hand washing, all of those things when they`re done well, the datasuggests, the science suggests that there is not a lot of transmissionhappening in schools, and in fact, the case rates in schools are generallylower than they are in the population surrounding it.So, that`s what the data and the science suggests. And that we definitelywant to have the community rates of disease go down. We want to make surethat that is happening as well. But the data suggests that it`s safe to goback to school if you do all of those mitigation measures.Now, that said, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices hasprioritized teachers as essential personnel because they are essential toour society`s function. And so, they fall in the 1B category, and theyshould be prioritized as essential workers for vaccination.That can be true, and I can believe that to be true, and I can emphasizethat I believe teachers should get vaccinated. But I also think that thescience tells us that if we can do the proper mitigation measures -- and Iwould emphasize, if we have the funding to do the proper mitigationmeasures as is put forth in the American Rescue Plan -- that we can reopenschools safely even if all of the teachers are not vaccinated.MADDOW: Is CDC going to do detailed guidance that will, if it`s seen asauthoritative guidance that will be seen as effectively rules for what ittakes to safely reopen schools?WALENSKY: They are working actively on that now, and it should beforthcoming, absolutely. Because we know --MADDOW: OK.WALENSKY: -- we know that guidance is essential.MADDOW: Now, I have to ask you on that point, though. We have had apolitical promise, a campaign promise from President Biden that one of hisgoals for his first 100 days is that he wants schools to reopen.So -- I mean, maybe I`m once bitten and twice shy here given what`shappened in the Trump administration in the past year, but is there -- isit -- is it reasonable to be suspicious of CDC guidance on reopeningschools given that the president has said that schools should reopen?If CDC scientists find that scientifically actually, it`s hard to safelyreopen schools, maybe we shouldn`t be doing so much in-person learning,will the Biden administration -- will the president let you say thatpublicly?WALENSKY: I`m -- I think all of what you`re saying is actually consistent.The Biden administration and I agree with it, believes that schools shouldbe the last thing to close and the first thing to open. That administrationand I agree with it, believes there should be adequate funding to make surethat all of the mitigation measures are in place in schools, should beprioritized in schools, so that we can get those schools open.And then, there should be funding for testing in schools, there should befunding and resources for vaccination of teachers.So, all of those things are consistent. And I think what that first 100-dayplan tells us is this is a priority. We have to get our children back toschool.MADDOW: In terms of some of the most vulnerable people and the people whohave experienced the highest rates of infection, particularly on the job,we reported here last year that your predecessor, Dr. Robert Redfield --sorry to say it this way -- but he tampered with the report on COVIDtransmission at a meatpacking plant. He ordered CDC investigators to waterdown their findings and recommendations.Thereafter, after we reported that, we learned that the meat industry,meatpacking industry had effectively drafted the president`s executiveorder, mandating that meatpacking plants must stay open even if local orstate authorities wanted to shut them down for public health reasons.It`s -- that to me is a disaster, especially given how many thousands ofpeople who work in the meatpacking industry ended up getting infected andhow many of them died. Are you going to unwind all of that? Should weexpect a revision of that? It seems like that process was so corrupted.WALENSKY: We intend to do a full review of all of the guidance to insurethat it fully follows the science. It has been reviewed by subject matterexperts.What I can tell you is we are -- we are stewards of public health. We wantto make sure that those workers in the meatpacking plants are safe. We wantto make sure that the food is safe for the American people.The Department of Labor has put forward guidance to make sure that thoseworkers are safe. There is guidance that should look at infection controlpolicies within those meatpacking plants to make sure that all of thedocuments and guidance for the workers are actually in multiple languagesso that they can fully understand them, and yes, we intend to fully makesure that the science is leading us.MADDOW: Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the new director of the Centers for DiseaseControl -- ma`am, let me just -- I`ll just say right now, thank you forwhat you`re doing, and I am -- I will reiterated how intimidated I am bythe task ahead of you.But I`ll also tell you, if you get stepped on and if you and the scientistsat the CDC for any reason feel like you are not able to lead with publichealth or you`re not able to say what you think needs to be done, if youget into some politically uncomfortable positions with the newadministration -- which I don`t expect, but if it happens -- please knowthat you`ve got an open door here to tell the public what`s going on, andyou will not believe how much support you will get for scientific freedomif there`s any political trammel on what you`re doing.WALENSKY: I look forward to being back and I sure hope and don`tanticipate it will be for that reason.MADDOW: I -- I am -- I`m with you on that, and I look forward to havingyou back. Good luck to you. Thank you so much.WALENSKY: Thank you. Thank you.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: As I mentioned at the top of the show, we are expecting a votetomorrow on whether or not a new Republican member of Congress will bestripped from her committee assignments. That vote is going to take placetomorrow afternoon. This is House Democrats forcing the Republican counterparts to respond to a -- what seem Tuesday be an escalating series ofviolent conspiracy laden and virulently anti-Semitic social media poststhat Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene has made.We have a pretty good idea how Democrats are going to vote on that measureas to whether or not she should be on House committees. But if you have anyindication how Republicans were thinking about the issue consider this.Multiple news outlets reporting tonight that during the Republican`s closeddoor caucus meeting to discuss this issue, Marjorie Taylor Greene got astanding ovation in that room from as much as half of the Republican caucusin that room.The House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy had the opportunity today toremove the congresswoman from her committee assignments simply on the sayso of her own conference, of the Republicans saying so themselves. He chosenot to do that even though he knows full well if he didn`t take thataction, Democrats were definitely going to have the votes to go ahead anddo it anyway.So at the end of the day, she`s not going to end up any committeeassignments. She`s going to end up a member of Congress who has no work todo and isn`t invited to any of the rooms in which actual work happens. TheRepublicans chose not to do it themselves. The Democrats will. And tomorrowwe will get to see every Republican member of the House go on record aboutwhere they stand on the anti-Semitic conspiracy lady who endorsed themurder of Nancy Pelosi.We don`t yet know the timing of when that vote is going to happen yet. Wedon`t know about the kind of debate or floor speeches that may happen inadvance. But we know it`s going to be on the House floor tomorrowafternoon. Yuck (ph)!Watch this space.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Still having to get used to the fact we`re allowed to actuallybook government officials now. We were always calling them and asking themto be on the show. But now, the White House doesn`t intervene to stopgovernment officials from coming on the show to explain what it is they`redoing and to face my questions.It`s -- I don`t know how long it`s going to take me to get used to this,but I`m going to -- I hope it lasts.That does it for us tonight. Thanks again to the CDC Director RochelleWalensky for being here.We`ll see you again tomorrow night.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>