Summary:Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) is interviewed. "The New York Times" isreporting that the inspector general at Transportation Department had madea criminal referral to the Justice Department concerning formerTransportation Secretary Elaine Chao`s alleged behavior after investigatedallegations that she misused her office to benefit her family`s shippingcompany. Chokwe Antar Lumumba, the mayor of the great city of Jackson,Mississippi is interviewed.Transcript:CHRIS HAYES, MSNBC HOST: Congressman Adam Schiff of California, thank youso much for joining us tonight.That is ALL IN on this Wednesday night."THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" starts right now.Good evening, Rachel. I`m on time for once.RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST: You know what? I will never give anybody a hardtime about being on time --HAYES: I`m sorry, I`m being late for three days in a row.MADDOW: -- because I`ve never been on time in my life.HAYES: OK.MADDOW: You know what? All the more -- all the more time for me to panicabout what I`m about to say. I will never begrudge you. Thank you, myfriend.And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.Where to begin tonight? Seriously, this is almost like the bad old daysagain. You know, planning our coverage, planning what stories we`re goingto be covering and reporting on tonight, booking reporters and guests,getting everything all set up, then kablooey, tear up rundown, start again.We made a whole new plan and then we had to tear that one up too. Wehaven`t had a night like this in long time but this is turning out to beone of those nights.There`s lots of different places that we can start. Let`s start here. Ifyou were a second grader, say, and were trying to show for a class projectthat you had mastered a second grade level understanding of what corruptionis, what it means to be a crooked, corrupt public official. One of thethings you might conjure up from second grader`s level understanding ofthat concept is that like, hypothetically, you might have a person in thegovernment whose job in the government was that they were in charge of roadbuilding projects, right?That person could not also own part of a company that was the country`sbiggest supplier of road building materials, right? If you were a secondgrader trying to show you understood what corruption is, that would bealmost oversimplified example of what it means to be corrupt, being incharge of road building while also holding a personal financial stake incompany that does road building, that stands to benefit from your actionsas public official, which means you can take actions as public official toput money in your own pocket. That`s second grader`s understanding ofcorruption, oversimplified one, right?Except for the fact that in real life, in the Trump administration whenElaine Chao was appointed secretary of transportation, she was told byethics officials that she needed to divest, sell her stake in companydescribed by "Wall Street Journal" as the country`s largest supplier ofcrashed sand and gravel used in road paving and road building, right?As any second grader who understands these things could tell you, astransportation secretary, you have a lot of say in, say, roads. So, youcan`t also own a company that does road paving and road building.Elaine Chao was advised by ethics officials that, of course, she needed todivest from that company. You can`t be transportation secretary and havestock in a road building company. Come on.She was told to divest. She said she would. "Wall Street Journal" had thescope in 2019 that Elaine Chao actually did not divest from that company,she held on to the stock, tons of it, in fact.Remember how the Trump administration was always declaring it wasinfrastructure week, and that became a big punch line for them. I mean,every time there was indictment of Trump friend, new scandal, worthy ofanother impeachment, declare infrastructure week, even though the Trumpadministration never actually did anything on infrastructure.But American public media was first to report that one of the materialconsequences of them repeatedly declaring infrastructure week is that everytime they announced it would be infrastructure week again, stock marketprice would go up at that crushed sand and gravel company that Elaine Chaostayed invested in, even while she was serving as secretary oftransportation. Nice gig if you can get it, right?But in your hypothetical second grader project explaining to your secondgrade colleagues what corruption is, even beyond the holding stock in theroad building company thing. If you don`t have faith in the second graderscolleagues, you don`t think they can grasp something even that simple, youmight conjure an even simpler example, paragon idea of what it means to bea crooked public official. You might imagine say that in your job as apublic official, in your job as transportation secretary of the UnitedStates, you took official action, you arranged official travel, youarranged official government meetings and photo ops to benefit your familybusiness.Is that even simpler idea of the basic idea of corruption? Because in 2019,"The New York Times" was first to report on a series of actions taken byTrump transportation Secretary Elaine Chao in which she brought or tried tobring father and other family members involved in her China-basedtransportation business on official U.S. government trips and to officialU.S. government events into what were supposed to be official U.S.government meetings, she brought her family members, or wanted to bring herfamily members who run the family business.On what would have been her first trip to China as Trump`s transportationsecretary, there on behalf of United States of America as a high rankinggovernment official, she tried to get the U.S. embassy in Beijing to helpher arrange meetings for her relatives who were going to travel with her onthe trip. Her relatives who run her family business that have extensiveinterests in China and want additional business from the Chinesegovernment. She wanted the U.S. embassy, the State Department, to help setup those meetings for her family members as part of her trip there as U.S.government official.And the embassy personnel, the U.S. embassy personnel in China who gotasked to do that for her family freaked out how blatantly unethical thatwas, they squawked about it and ultimately, Secretary Chao called off thetrip altogether. But, I mean, come on, I mean, the Trump administration hada lot of corruption scandals, this is the kind you can write in capitalletters and fit on a bumper sticker.Elaine Chao, of course, is now no longer transportation secretary. She quitthe cabinet right after the Capitol attack in January. Elaine Chao famouslyis married to top Republican in the Senate, Mitch McConnell.The widespread and quite towering allegations of corruption againstSecretary Chao while she served as transportation secretary, remember in2019, the scandals were reported one after another during her time inoffice. At one point in 2019, there were like five separate corruptionscandals were raging around her at the same time, most of which dwarfed theother concurrent Trump cabinet member corruption scandals, and that`sreally saying something given the level of corruption at the highest levelof the Trump administration.But it`s interesting, Senator Mitch McConnell and his wife Elaine Chaonever seemed worried, never seemed to sweat any of it. McConnell, in fact,frequently joked about it as if it was no problem whatsoever and theydidn`t have care in the world about it. Now we know why. Tonight, theinspector general at her department, the Transportation Department, hasjust released a public report on the matter, on the investigation that wasdone by inspector general`s office at Transportation Department intomultiple allegations of corruption against Elaine Chao.The public report, the letter tonight released to the public discloses thatinvestigators looking at these corruption allegations against Elaine Chaoactually found the allegations to be substantiated enough and seriousenough that she was referred to U.S. Justice Department for potentialcriminal prosecution. Now, she is not the first Trump cabinet official thishas happened to. This is actually by my count I think the fourth Trumpcabinet official that we know of, who inspector general investigatorsreferred to Justice Department for federal criminal prosecution oncorruption charges after they looked into serious allegations against allthese different Trump cabinet members.That said, spread it around thick enough, seems like nobody ever gets introuble for it. I mean, under the Trump Organization, see if you can spotthe pattern here. Robert Wilkie, Trump Veterans Affairs secretary, wasinvestigated for corruption. The investigation resulted in a referral tothe DOJ, for federal criminal prosecution. Trump`s DOJ declined toprosecute Secretary Wilkie.Also, Trump`s Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke investigated for corruption.The result of the investigation was that it was found to be substantive andserious enough it was referred to Justice Department for criminalprosecution. Trump`s Justice Department declined to prosecute SecretaryZinke.Also, Trump Labor Secretary Alex Acosta investigated for corruption. Theresult of the investigation was that the allegations were found to besubstantive and serious enough that he was referred to Department ofJustice for potential criminal prosecution. The Trump Justice Departmentdeclined to prosecute him as well.Well, now, tonight, we know that it`s four of them at least, now TrumpTransportation Secretary Elaine Chao as well also referred for criminalprosecution, and referred to Trump DOJ in a very interesting timeline,before they too decided not to prosecute her.In this letter explaining the actions of their office, inspector general`soffice says they started the corruption investigation into TransportationSecretary Elaine Chao in 2019. Based on that investigation, they decidedthat some of the allegations were serious and substantive enough theyrequired a criminal referral to the Justice Department. They made thatcriminal referral based on the findings of the investigation.Look, they made the criminal referral December 16th, 2020, that`s when theyreferred her for potential prosecution to the U.S. attorneys office in D.C.Then, the following day, December 17th, they referred her to publicintegrity section, which is essentially the public corruption section atMain Justice for potential prosecution there as well. Waning days of theTrump administration, during the transition, a month before Biden was swornin as president, the Trump Justice Department receives criminal referralsto potentially prosecute Mitch McConnell`s wife Elaine Chao and theyquietly decline that`s prosecutions.What other president in one term was, you know, efficient enough, effectiveenough or laser-focused enough to have four different cabinet secretaries,at least, referred for criminal prosecution for corruption? And this isn`tlike somebody writing letter say, I hate this guy, look into him. This islike a real investigation that was done by inspector general professionalinvestigators. And what they found was serious enough should be a courtcase. This should possibly be a criminal matter, we have to refer it.I mean, that happening to one high ranking government official of any kindis a big deal. He had four in the cabinet in four years. That`s like --that`s -- that`s well, it tells you something about the Trump JusticeDepartment. That`s exhausting amount of work for the justice departmentalone, kyboshing and turning down all the already investigated,substantiated serious corruption investigations of high ranking officialsin the government. It must have been exhausting turning all of those away,one after another.When does Merrick Garland become attorney general? What`s the plan fordealing with improper political influence and corruption inside the JusticeDepartment during the Trump years? Are they going to fix that? Are theylooking for that? Is there going to be consequences for that?But Mitch McConnell is still top Republican in the Senate. So, at least weknow in this case that if any ill-gotten gains from his wife`s allegedcorruption made way back to the family, at least we know they`re stayingclose to the most powerful people in Republican governance even today. Justincredible.We`ll actually have more on that story with one of the reporters who brokesome of the most lurid allegations against Elaine Chao for "The New YorkTimes", coming up, a little later on this hour.We have been expecting tonight that the Senate right now would be takingits first action on the big COVID relief bill. That did not happen becauseof procedural delays in the Senate. But we also know now that when they dostart to debate and take votes on the COVID relief bill, Mitch McConnelland the Senate Republicans are going to string it out as much as possible,pull out all the dirty tricks to muck it up as much as they can, includingthings like forcing the clerks to read every word of the bill out loud andto read out loud every word of every amendment and they can offer basicallyinfinite amendments. So, that can take essentially infinite time.They`re going to try to slow down COVID relief as long as possible with 20and 30-hour marathon stunts on the Senate floor. Because it`s not like theAmerican people are in any hurry for COVID relief or anything. No need torush like the funding for vaccine distribution or funding for reopeningschools or relief checks for unemployed people right now. No need to rush,let`s see how long we can stretch it out, maybe make it take weeks.I mean, on the other side of the Capitol, there is a rush on a surpriselate in the day announcement from the House today that they`re going to bestaying late and taking votes tonight on their big election reform bill,H.R.1, the For the People Act, as well as the big policing reform bill. Thedecided to rush to do both tonight, essentially so that the House could notbe in session tomorrow.The reason they decided late in the game that they do not want to be insession tomorrow is for security concerns. It is not yet two months sincethe January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol by the Trump supporting mob, butthe Capitol police and House sergeant at arms and joint bulletin fromHomeland Security and FBI have all warned that same kind of attackers mightbe coming back tomorrow, March 4th, Thursday, March 4th. At least that`swhat militia groups and conspiracy theory adherents have discussedapparently, trying to attack the Capitol again, tomorrow, on March 4th,because they`re fantasizing that somehow tomorrow will be the day thatTrump will come back to power.Now, why did they pick March 4th? It`s the day U.S. presidents used to beinaugurated before they changed the date of the presidential inaugurationto January. They did that I think in the 1930s.For several weeks now, even before the Capitol insurrection, that quirk inhistory has made March 4th another day of focus for the extremists andcloud cuckoo land Trump supporters and conspiracy theorists who think he`san emperor or something, secretly won the election and Mike Flynn andmilitary are now somehow going to install him back in the White House andkill everybody else.Incidentally, I want to note here, random and weird as unsettling as theseconspiracy theories are about this idea that on something, March 4th forsome reason something is going to happen to reinstall Trump in power andtherefore might be another effort to attack the U.S. Capitol. For as weirdas unsettling as that is, far-fetched as it still feels after January 6thattack, you should know that Trump Hotel in Washington, D.C., does appearto think something really special is going on tomorrow in Washington, D.C.This was first reported by `The Washingtonian" magazine last month. But wechecked today, still absolutely true, that the Trump Hotel has marked upits hotel rooms for tonight and tomorrow to nearly triple their usual rate.They`re usually at $400, $500 a night. That`s what they are the nightspreceding March 4th and 5th.That is what they -- excuse me, March 3rd and 4th. That is what they`regoing back to next week. That`s what they have been in recent days. But fortonight, eve of the 4th and the 4th itself, Trump hotel is charging aminimum of over $1,300 a room, then the rates go back down.Now, why is that? Well, FBI and homeland security are warning that tomorrowmay be date of new attempted siege of the Capitol by Trump supportingextremists, and Trump Hotel has tripled the cost for hotel room tonight andtomorrow. Why is that?Not like something else is going on in D.C. to explain the hotel ratesbeing jacked up tonight and tomorrow. We looked at equivalent hotels inD.C., Four Seasons or the Hey Adams, their rates are the same as theyalways are. It`s just the Trump Hotel where if some reason, you`re going tobe in town tonight for something special tomorrow, they`re going toabsolutely get triple the money they usually would. So, it`s special dayfor them for some reason.The FBI, Homeland Security joint intelligence bulletin to state and localenforcement agencies says that these Trump supporting groups have, quote,discussed plans to take control of the U.S. Capitol and remove Democraticlawmakers on or about March 4th. Remove Democratic lawmakers, remove themfrom the Capitol, really?Well, lawmakers it turns out are removing themselves. They`re doing thesetwo big votes tonight so they won`t have to meet tomorrow and don`t want tomeet tomorrow because of the heightened security status around the threatsthat seem nuts and also maybe necessary, maybe how undefended U.S. Capitolwas to disastrous effect the last time the nut balls said they were comingto install Trump by force and then they did.Today in the Senate, they tried to get to the bottom of one of the reallyvexing, worrying questions about what happened on the day of the attack.Why didn`t the police get backup? When the Trump mob started overrunningthe Capitol, overran the police and police officers were being beaten andgassed and having their protective equipment torn off and they`re beingdragged down the Capitol steps and stomped and beaten with flag poles andbats, when police officials were begging for the National Guard to come inand backstop them, why didn`t it happen?Senate tried to get to the bottom of that today. It was remarkable seriesof revelations. Today, we learned that D.C. National Guard was told the daybefore the attack, January 5th, that they were going to need specialpermission directly from the secretary of the army himself, personally, ifthey wanted to deploy a quick reaction force in case of attack. We learnedthat the next day when the attack happened, they refused to give thatpermission for more than three hours while the Capitol was overrun and fivepeople including a police officer died. Request to send in National Guardas backup languished for hours. For hours.We also got confirmation believe it or not, at the Pentagon, one of thesenior officials who fielded that desperate call for help, one of thePentagon officials who expressed opinion wouldn`t be good idea to allow theNational Guard in to help was, in fact, the younger brother of Trumpnational security adviser Mike Flynn who, of course, was a focal point andhero of the extremists who carried out the attack, who himself promoted andeven spoke at events in D.C. that preceded the attack, who had publiclycalled for Trump to use the military to overturn the election to stay inpower.His younger brother, Lt. General Charles Flynn at the Pentagon, was in onthe decision on January 6th to hold the National Guard back and not letthem in to help the police being overrun by the rioters as they swarmed theCapitol. Now, Pentagon made multiple public stating explicitly denying thatFlynn had any part in the discussion. The Army lied about that. Why didthey lie about that?(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)SEN. JOHN OSSOFF (D-GA): Who made that statement?MAJ. GEN. WILLIAM WALKER, D.C. NATIONAL GUARD COMMANDER: That was seniorleaders in United States army, General Piatt, General Flynn and others,they got back to me saying -- that was on the phone call with District ofColumbia senior leaders, that it wouldn`t be their best military advice tosend uniformed guardsmen to the Capitol because they didn`t like theoptics.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Senior leaders in the U.S. Army, including General Flynn andothers. Charlie Flynn, Mike Flynn`s brother. Why did the Pentagon lie andsay he wasn`t part of this disastrous decision when he definitely was?(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)WALKER: At 1:49 p.m. I received a frantic call from then chief of UnitedStates Capitol police, Steven Sund, where he informed me that the securityperimeter of the United States Capitol had been breached by hostilerioters. Chief Sund, his voice cracking with emotion indicated that therewas a dire emergency at the Capitol and he requested that immediateassistance of as many available National Guardsmen as I could muster.Immediately after that 1:49 call, I alerted U.S. army senior leadership ofthe request. The approval for Chief Sund`s request would eventually comefrom acting secretary of defense and be relaid to me by Army senior leadersabout 5:08 p.m. About three hours and 19 minutes later, I had guardsmen onbuses at the armory ready to move to the Capitol. Consequently, at 5:20p.m., less than 20 minutes, the District of Columbia National Guard arrivedat the Capitol.SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): I just keep imagining the scene, the wholecountry, the world is seeing this on TV. You`ve got the police linebreached at this moment. You have -- you have smashed windows. You haveinsurrectionists going through the police lines. You are on the phone,everyone is seeing this on TV, and they`re not immediately approving yourrequest.And in your recent testimony, you just said, hey, I could have gotten themon the buses and ready to go, is that correct?WALKER: That is correct, Senator.KLOBUCHAR: And as you just testified in response to Senator Peters, youbelieve that would have made a difference to have him at perimeter insooner point, and I know people in charge of Capitol security felt thesame.WALKER: Yes, ma`am.KLOBUCHAR: And so you could have had them there earlier, hours earlier ifit had been approved and then you had them on the bus. And so, they wereactually sitting on the bus for a short period of time waiting because youthought they`ve got to honor the request, is that how your head wasworking, so you actually put them on the bus so they were ready to go butcouldn`t let the buses go?WALKER: Yes, Senator, I just came to the conclusion that eventually I`mgoing to get approval, and at that point, seconds matters, minutesmattered. I needed to get them there quick as possible. I already hadDistrict of Columbia National Guard, military police vehicle in front ofthe bus to help get through any traffic lights. We were there in 18minutes. I arrived at 17:20. They were sworn in as soon as they got there.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: As soon as the Pentagon finally told them, yes, it`s okay to go,the guardsmen were at Capitol in 18 minutes. They could have been there in18 minutes.Instead, the Pentagon, including Mike Flynn`s brother, after Mike Flynn ispublicly calling on the military to do what the rioters were trying to do,overthrow the government and reinstall Trump in power, General Flynn`sbrother and other officials told them they didn`t like the idea of sendingin the National Guard.And so, the guard was held back for more than three hours, while theCapitol was overrun. They could have been there in 18 minutes but were heldback more than three hours while everything that happened that day happenedand five people died.Joining us now is Senator Amy Klobuchar. She`s chair of the RulesCommittee, one of the committees that oversaw today`s hearing. She alsoserves on Judiciary Committee, as well as the Senate committee on Commerce,Science and Transportation. Her committee assignments are basically nexusof the developing stories tonight.Senator, you are right in middle of it all. Thank you so much for makingtime to be here tonight.KLOBUCHAR: Thanks, Rachel.MADDOW: I felt like a learned a lot at the hearing today in terms of whathappened with the National Guard situation with that delay. I wasfrustrated though to not hear from the Pentagon officials who made thedecision that the delay should happen. Do you expect we will hear fromGeneral Flynn, from the former defense secretary, from the chief of thearmy who actually made these calls?KLOBUCHAR: Well, first of all, as you know last week, and we talked aboutthis, we found out the mess-ups that happened on the Capitol side. And thatwas not requesting the guard earlier. That wasn`t really the DefenseDepartment`s fault. That was decisions made by then sergeant at arms thatwere wrong. That would have made a big difference.So, I want to look at whole picture here because our full focus, Rachel, ison being constructive. We did this on a bipartisan basis, Senator Petersand I as well as Senator Blunt and Senator Portman. So that`s -- those were-- those were major issues.We have the structure of the Capitol police board where multiple peoplehave to make decisions and give the go-ahead to the Capitol police, andthat has to change. Then you get to what you`re rightfully focused on, theday off, where we heard the stunning testimony today from General Walker,where in fact he said he was ready to go, he had a number of trained menand women of the National Guard, who by the way are guarding us today, willbe guarding us tomorrow when we come in to do work to get the COVID packagedone, and they were ready to go, and he waited and waited and waited.And yes, this raises many other questions, and there`s many ways we can getthose answers -- additional hearings, we can have interviews, we can dowritten questions. But clearly, we were left with a big fat question markabout what the motivations were. The -- Walker, General Walker, the head ofthe D.C. National Guard, who was incredible today, you know, his theory wasthey were concerned how it would look. They said that they were concerned,this is his testimony, that it could have gotten the protesters going more.But the point was, now, wait a minute, there was moment where everyone inthe world saw it on TV. When they made that call, it was already on TV thatglass was breaking, they had breached the lines, that they were enteringthe Capitol as we now know with bear spray and with stun guns and withpoles they used as weapons. And to just delay at all is what shocked thehead of the Metropolitan Police last week when he testified and thisgeneral said the very same thing.They should have immediately, immediately made that decision. And by theway, if people say, well, it doesn`t matter, had already entered theCapitol, every second mattered, every minute mattered, as you look at lossof life of Officer Sicknick, you look at the people that were severelyinjured in that insurrection.MADDOW: Senator, it`s been a little bit jarring today to see thattestimony, to look at what happened that day, to get new information aboutwhat happened, and also to see these warnings about another threat from thesame types of folks pinned to tomorrow and conspiracy theories about March4th. I didn`t -- I haven`t known how much attention to pay to them, howmuch frankly to talk about them on television, didn`t want to amplify themmore than they deserve, but there has been dramatic movement tonight.We`re seeing the House deciding basically to not be in session. Theychanged their voting schedule. They`re there late tonight so they don`thave to be there tomorrow. We`ve seen security advice that members ofCongress and senators should use underground tunnels and have staffteleworking tomorrow if possible just in case there is -- there is moretrouble.What`s your perspective on that?KLOBUCHAR: Well, we are all listening to the acting police chief. We alsohave the acting sergeant at arms, and, of course, we have so much moresecurity than we had, it`s not even a comparison, and so much moreintelligence coming our way. There were issues before the insurrectionwhere raw intelligence was put out, didn`t get in the right hands. We thinkthere have been improvements there.And so, the Senate, really Rachel we`ve got to get this COVID package done,and Ron Johnson, Senator Johnson, has decided as you rightfully pointed outon your show, that he`s going to make the parliamentarians read the entirebill into the record. Read it out loud. That he`s going to make the Senatedo that.And that`s his choice. Anyone could read the bill, it`s been out there awhile. He could read it at home or out loud himself if he would like. Butthat`s one of the things we have to do tomorrow, we have a vote and that`sgoing to happen, then we`ll go into the week.We don`t think the American people can wait. If he wants to delay themgetting direct checks, people who need the help. Or he wants to delay thatmoney and rest of the Republicans want to delay the money going out to payfor vaccine distribution -- we want to get the shots in the arm and want tofollow through on President Biden`s incredible news yesterday that there`sgoing to be shots available for every adult by May.Well, we`ve got to make sure the distribution is in place. We`ve got tohelp our schools. So, we are staying in until it gets done.MADDOW: Senator Amy Klobuchar, chair of the Rules Committee, again, rightat heart of all the things happening all at once right now. Senator, it`sgood to see you, thanks for making time.KLOBUCHAR: Thank you.MADDOW: As I mentioned, one of the things the House is voting on is theFor the People Act, H.R.1, election reforms, trying to ungerrymander thecountry, trying to bolster voting rights. When that goes over to theSenate, it will be Senator Klobuchar and her committee that will be helmingthat as that heads toward a big filibuster standoff in the U.S. Senate.We`re watching that vote tonight in the House, the vote on the George Floydpolicing Act, Policing Reform Act.It`s big night, lots still going on. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: As I mentioned top of the show, we`re following developing newstonight concerning allegations of potential criminal activity by TrumpTransportation Secretary Elaine Chao, who also happens to be the wife ofSenate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell."The New York Times" was first to report tonight that the inspector generalat Transportation Department had made a criminal referral to the JusticeDepartment concerning Chao`s alleged behavior after investigatedallegations that she misused her office to benefit her family`s shippingcompany.The I.G. said, quote: We concluded that a formal investigation intopotential misuses of position was warranted.We also learned from the I.G. tonight that Trump Justice Department gavethat criminal referral on Elaine Chao to the Justice Department -- sorry,the inspector general gave that criminal referral about Chao to the TrumpJustice Department on December 16th and December 17th, of 2020, so duringthe transition between the Trump and Biden administrations. The TrumpJustice Department declined to take up the investigation. They`re notpursuing Chao, despite the referrals.In 2019, it was "The New York Times" that was first to break the story thatChao had been using her role as secretary of transportation to boost theprofile of her family`s company. Now we know what that reporting sparked.Joining me now is someone who`s bylined on both of those stories I justmentioned, "New York Times" investigative reporter Eric Lipton.Mr. Lipton, thanks very much for making time to be here tonight.ERIC LIPTON, INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER, THE NEW YORK TIMES: Thank you.MADDOW: So the inspector general has described that office`s investigationof what you and your colleagues reported at "The Times" and otherallegations against Chao.Did you learn anything from the inspector general`s disclosure tonightabout Chao`s behavior or about the seriousness with which it wasinvestigated?LIPTON: Yeah. I mean, in fact, we learned that there were many moreexamples of her intervening in ways that were to benefit her father an attimes her sister. Her father was one of the founders of the shippingcompany which largely operates out of China and her sister currently hasbeen chief executive there. And so, there were many more examples of hertaking actions that was helping elevate the sort of -- the promotionalaspects of the company, particularly as her father, who`s now retired butstill associated with the company was promoting a book and was beingdescribed in Chinese media as being, you know, a major player in theshipping industry in China.MADDOW: One of the things that this brought home to me is the sheer numberof times we`ve now learned that Trump Justice Department got a criminalreferral for a serving member of the cabinet, then declined to take up thecase. From your reporting in your long career of reporting on publiccorruption and bad behavior by public officials, is it a surprise that theydidn`t take up these referrals either in terms of the U.S. Attorney`sOffice in D.C. or the Public Integrity Division?LIPTON: Not really, I mean, these are not matters where she was takingactions that brought her direct financial benefit or that there wasallegations of money being exchanged or anything like that. I mean, I thinkwhat the inspector general found were instances that appeared to be ethicsviolations and they made a referral to the DOJ and made a referral afterDOJ didn`t take it up to office of the general counsel at the Department ofTransportation. What they got back from DOJ was that we don`t see groundsfor criminal case but we`re not adjudicating on whether there were ethicalviolations here, that`s up for administrative process for the Department ofTransportation.So, I`m not surprised that that was the outcome. What I was surprised washow many examples there were that this report documented a dozen differentcases where the Department of Transportation staff were used to helppromote her father`s interest or her sister`s interests, particularly as itpertains to their face to China which is where their business operatesmostly.MADDOW: Eric, quick last question for you. Obviously, Secretary Chao isout of office but her husband is Republican leader in the Senate. Is thereany indication that any family benefit that accrued to the Chao familythrough the actions of Secretary Chao might have made its way home toSecretary Chao and to Senator McConnell themselves? Any indication he mighthave benefitted from ill-gotten gains?LIPTON: Nothing direct. I mean, I think the benefits would be that sheused her staff and her office to help elevate her father and at times hersister who are executives -- her sister still executive at prominentChinese largely -- New York-based but building ships in China anddelivering freight in China, and then a company that`s gotten financialbacking from government of China to build its ships there. So, I think herwork helped continue to elevate his stature in China and that couldpotentially bring the family company some benefit but nothing that directlybenefitted financially her or Mitch McConnell.MADDOW: "New York Times" investigative reporter Eric Lipton, thank you somuch for helping us understand this story tonight, and congratulationsbeing there beginning and end of this arc. I really appreciate your time.LIPTON: Thank you.MADDOW: All right. More ahead tonight. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Barbara Howard is professor at Jackson State University inMississippi. This picture taken this week on Professor Howard`s back porchin Jackson. She left that silver pan outside overnight to try to collectrain water, because like tens of thousands of Americans in Jackson,Mississippi right now, Professor Howard has no running water.She told "The Clarion Ledger" newspaper it`s getting complicated runningall over town, trying to schedule water pickup so she can do basic thingslike filling up toilets so they can be flushed. So, she started collectingrain water instead. She said, so far, this is easier.This woman here spoke to the local news in Jackson. She`s showing them allthe bottled water from the store. She said she spent $13 and the supplythat might last her two days max. Unlike Professor Howard, this woman saysshe does have the water coming out of the taps, it`s just not clean todrink. And so, the bottled water.Jackson is the largest city in Mississippi. It`s capital of the state.Today is the 16th day in a row that the entire city of Jackson is withoutsafe drinking water.A cold snap last month knocked out aging pipes and water treatmentfacilities for Jackson. Sixteen days after that, tens of thousands ofpeople in the city still have no running water. The whole city remainsunder a boil water advisory, which means you can`t just drink anything outof the tap.And today, it actually got worse. The city`s public works director gave apress briefing to update everybody on how things are coming along, andtrying to fix all the broken water mains and all the pipes knocked out bythe storm. This is how that press conference started.(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)DR. CHARLES WILLIAMS, JACKSON, MS PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: Try to be astransparent as possible. Today was not a good day for us.(END VIDEO CLIP)MADDOW: Today was not a good day for us, he says. And reason is waterpressure.Yesterday, the water pressure in Jackson was around 80 pounds per squareinch. For context, needs to be about 90 pounds per square inch to generatethe force to push through everybody`s pipes. So, yesterday, it wasn`t 90,which is what it needs to be. It was 80.Today, it tanked all the way down to 50, which means some people who hadregained water pressure to get running water back in their houses in thelast few days have since lost it again as water pressure dropped again from80, all the way down to 50.Public works director did say the city is making some progress on fixingall the leaking pipes. There`s about 20 broken water mains throughout thecity that are still spilling water into the streets instead of taps. Hesaid today he expects all those leaks to be -- those broken pipes to befixed by end of the weekend, which is good news for people who don`t haveany water in their homes right now but doesn`t change the fact that thewater itself still isn`t safe to drink.The city as of yet has no guess as to when Jackson`s water will bedrinkable, if and when people get it back in their faucets and running outof their taps. Sixteen days of this. How much of this can Jackson take, andwhat can the rest of the country be doing to help?The mayor of Jackson joins us live next. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: Clams, mussels, other fish and other items. That was the officialtally of what was clogging Jackson, Mississippi`s, water intake filterstoday, filters that raw intake water has to pass through on the way to thetreatment plant and then eventually into people`s pipes. That debris andtrouble with the filters caused water pressure to plummet today again inJackson.In the midst of this crisis, tens of thousands of people without water, theentire city under boil water notice, which means the water is not safe todrink. More than two weeks with a great American city, a capital city,having no drinkable water. When is it going to end?Joining us is the mayor of Jackson, Mississippi, Chokwe Antar Lumumba.Mr. Mayor, thank you so much for being here, I know it is a critical timeand I really appreciate you being here.MAYOR CHOKWE ANTAR LUMUMBA (D), JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI: Thank you for havingme, Rachel.MADDOW: How are your constituents, how are your residents holding up? Thisis a lot to ask even of the very resilient people of Mississippi.LUMUMBA: Well I think your package describes it accurately, it iscritical, you know, not only do people depend on the water for the abilityto drink and to cook, to bathe, but we`re in a critical hour as we`refighting a pandemic. So, quite literally, it`s a protection mechanism, towash their hands and keep themselves safe.As you can imagine, residents are frustrated. Residents have questions andthey deserve to know why this is the case. And so, we have been working dayin and day out to get the system back running. We are operating from onepiece of aged equipment to the next. And this is on account of years ofneglect, years of insufficient investment, and that`s not just simply onthe local level, that`s on the state level, that`s on a federal level,understanding we have legacy cities that are grappling with this.That`s why you`re seeing the same narrative from Texas to Mississippi andbeyond. And so, you know, we are fighting in every way to get this systemback running. My most recent report from public works director is the issuewe suffered from today has fortunately been resolved, and we`re hopefulthat overnight, the gains we sustained over last few days we can revisitearly in the morning.MADDOW: Do you need more help at federal level than you`ve had thus far?We`ve been showing images of National Guard, for example, distributing non-potable water in some places in the city. You talked about this being aproblem at state level and federal level in terms of what Jackson needs forthis to never happen again and to try to build out of it. But in terms ofimmediate assistance to your residents, do you need something that you arenot getting right now and that you`re trying to get?LUMUMBA: Absolutely. The city of Jackson like most cities is under-resourced and not capable of making these corrections, you know, based onour own budgetary ability. So, I penned a letter to the governor because ittakes state to activate federal resources coming to cities. I think in themidst of this challenge, we have to consider how we create a directpipeline, no pun intended, for resources to go directly to cities.It is cities where the rubber meets the road, it`s the cities where we seethe efficacy of the investment of our federal government. I think we`vebeen having this discussion concerning a large infrastructure package fromthe federal government for quite some time. It is beyond time that we leavethe discussion phase and really truly implement something to help Americancities.MADDOW: Chokwe Antar Lumumba, the mayor of the great city of Jackson,Mississippi, thank you so much for being here tonight to help us understandand please keep us apprised, sir. I know this has just been an incrediblydifficult thing for the residents of your city to be through, to have gonethrough. Keep us updated as you dig out and let us know what the countryneeds to know.LUMUMBA: Thank you.MADDOW: All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.(COMMERCIAL BREAK)MADDOW: As we mentioned top of the show, House is taking votes late intothe night tonight, planning not to be in session tomorrow for securityreasons. They are voting tonight on their big For the People Act, democracyand election reforms.Also the George Floyd Justice and Policing Act which has just passed. Theirinitial reports that one Republican voted for it, which itself would benews. It turns out one Republican voted for it by accident and is going tochange his vote. Oh, well.That`s going to do for us for now. See you again tomorrow.Now, it`s time for "THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O`DONNELL."Good evening, Lawrence.THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAYBE UPDATED.ENDCopyright 2021 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein areprotected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced,distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without theprior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alteror remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of thecontent.>