Joe Biden speaks with Jacob Blake two days after President Trump surveyed damage in Kenosha
NEW
You can now listen to Fox News articles!
This is a rush transcript from “The Five," September 3, 2020. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Hello, everybody. I'm Jesse Watters, along with Dana Perino, Jessica Tarlov, Greg Gutfeld, and Kennedy. It is 5:00 in New York City, and this is The Five. The race for the White House wrapping up with both candidates clashing over law and order, Election Day now just two months away as President Trump and Joe Biden duke it out in key battleground states.
President Trump getting ready to hold a rally tonight in Pennsylvania, and Joe Biden on the ground in Wisconsin, meeting with Jacob Blake's family and community leaders, Biden also saying he spoke with Jacob Blake from his hospital bed. The former vice president claims he was going to Kenosha to heal. He then, of course, accused President Trump of fuelling unrest and embracing the quote, "dark side of human nature," the former VP also saying this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JOE BIDEN (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have reached an inflection point in American history. I honest to God believe we have an enormous opportunity now that the curtain has been pulled back. And guess what is going on in the country? None of it justifies looting, burning, or anything else. So regardless how angry you are, if you are looting or you're burning, you should be accountable as someone who does anything else, period. It just cannot be tolerated across the board.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Greg, I cannot just get over the mask, though, before we get into the substance of this. He is socially distanced. There's like three people inside that church. It's not a hotspot in Wisconsin. I don't know. I can't get over that. What did you think about what he said about the looting?
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: Well, that is the difference between me and you, Jesse. You kind of veer towards the superficial, where I like to discuss the depth and the meaning.
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: So many differences between us.
GUTFELD: And this will never change. That is true. But we should discuss that privately and not bring this out in public.
WATTERS: Let's do that.
GUTFELD: Here's the deal. Has anyone like Joe or anybody in the media visited the woman that Jacob Blake tried to attack? The woman that was sexually assaulted, allegedly -- had called 911 because they had a restraining order against him, because I guess he had attacked her before. He showed up there, the police trying to do their job. Maybe they did a poor job.
We don't know. I'm still not sure if he had a weapon or not. But it's interesting to me -- it's interesting to me that a guy running for president is visiting a person that sexually attacked a woman. And that may be the police made a mistake in it, but you can't get around that fact. And I don't know how you can get around that fact every day.
It's as if the MeToo movement never existed now, that there's another movement that trumps the rights of women. And if you actually say anything about it, you are screwed. The other thing that I want to just bring up about Joe is that everything he says that makes sense about crime or COVID, he picked up from Trump. So again, he is plagiarizing. He's copying.
Every time he stops ripping off people, he falls apart. So when he cannot steal, he merely spiels. It's like -- and then he ends up contradicting himself, so in a sense he is not never debating Trump at all. He is debating Joe Biden from a week ago. He is debating Joe Biden from five years ago. He is debating Joe Biden -- completely different Joe Biden on crime, right?
A completely different Joe Biden on race, right? He went to Robert Byrd's funeral. So it seems like the debate is between the Biden's and not between Trump and Biden. It should be BB -- build better back, should be Biden bashes Biden. That should be his slogan.
WATTERS: And yet, to your point, he was reaching for a knife. And you're right. You can't find his criminal history anywhere. They don't discuss it. And you have to actually search for it deep, deep, deep in the internet. Dana, I want to play some sound of Van Jones talking about how maybe playing on Trump's turf isn't really working out for Joe Biden. Let's listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The longer we talk about violence and unrest and how he's handling it or not handling it, it's all advantage Trump. In other words, this campaign is going well for Donald Trump, because we are not talking about the economic devastation that people are experiencing, or the virus, really. And I think it's time for us to recognize we are in a very perilous situation if you want to see a change in November.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: So Dana, do you think that Joe Biden has been forced to go off message because he didn't address reality way, way, way earlier in the summer?
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: I do think that if this were a war and you had Biden and Trump where the general, I think that Trump has lured Biden out of his safe spot and has him now on his turf. And I think that Van Jones saying that is really important, because some people might not remember. But in 2016, maybe even in 2015, he said early on to all the Democrats Donald Trump can win this thing.
WATTERS: Yeah.
PERINO: And he -- probably enough Democrats didn't listen to him, whatever. He doesn't dwell on that. He just tells it like it is. Now, Van Jones is also somebody who has been willing to work across the aisle to work on criminal justice reform like the First Step Act. He has other plans and ideas for that that he would like to do.
But I think that they really should try to listen to him, because he is sounding the alarm on something that's super important. Now, what I do find interesting is that to Greg's point, right, what about the woman that Blake was there visiting. He is -- that is -- he is the father of the children. But there is a restraining order. But the children were in the car.
And I still think that the police department in Kenosha -- I mean, this has been three or four weeks now, and we still don't have complete information. That almost seems like a problem in itself that it's exacerbating the problem in addition to having this all happen in the middle of a pandemic, with a recession, and an economic recovery on the horizon, and in the middle of a presidential election.
WATTERS: Yeah. Kennedy, there are some concerns among Wisconsin voters. Did we lose Kennedy? OK. Then I will ask Jessica this question. There are a lot of concerns -- they did a focus group. Axios just reported this. Wisconsin voters, swing state voters, per se, and they believe that Joe Biden wants to defund the police. Now, I don't know where they got that idea.
Perhaps it was because Joe Biden said on video he wants to redirect funding from police. And 25 Democratic city councils have voted to defund the police. And many Democrats who have endorsed Joe Biden say they want to defund the police. And that is really hurting Joe Biden's standing among swing state voters. How problematic is that in your opinion?
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: It's not that problematic in my opinion. If you look at the slew of polls that came in the last 24 hours, and Van Jones made those comments before, he looked at them as well. Everything from Wisconsin voters to a national sample is saying that Joe Biden is the person who makes them feel safer. Over 50 percent -- only 35 percent of Americans say Donald Trump would do the same.
Seventy five percent say racism is a real problem in this country. They trust Joe Biden to handle a crisis. If you look at the way that he talks to people who have been affected by these issues, as compared to Donald Trump, who the best the White House could do would say that he was affording outreach to Jacob Blake's family and then lying about having spoken to his family pastor.
You know who is on the right side of these issues. Now, I'm glad that Joe Biden is talking about law and order more, making it clear that the looting and the rioting is unacceptable. But it's clear the American public can read between the right wing talking points. And they understand that Joe Biden does not want to defund the police. He wants to re-imagine the police.
WATTERS: Oh, re-imagine the police.
TARLOV: Yeah, re-imagine the police. And to Greg's point --
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS: What about redirect funding?
TARLOV: Well, it's about taking big, bloated budgets and making sure that money is going to the right places. And I -- there are a lot of people on both sides of the aisle that agree with that. I just want to quickly also address Greg's point about where is the defense of women in this. If Donald Trump would stand up and say Atatiana Jefferson's name, talk about Breonna Taylor, Sandra Bland, I would have a lot of an easier time talking about what Jacob Blake may or may not have done.
It is not a capitol punishment to maybe be reaching for your knife in a car. What happened to him, what happened to Philando Castile, George Floyd, et cetera, is part of a pattern, and if the right continues to ignore that, they will lose the election in November.
WATTERS: Greg, would you like to respond to some of those things?
GUTFELD: I find it astounding that people are deciding not to show up for work to honor a person who was attacking a woman in which the woman claimed she was digitally raped. So I guess we can compare it to other cases, but I think that's a lousy argument. As far as though polls go, there is only one real poll that matters for me right now.
It's cloud research that found that 10 to 11 percent, I think, of Republicans and independents are not telling the truth about who they will vote for. And five percent of the Democrats are doing the same. Now, you could say they are lying. They could be lying about who they are voting for, could be they are lying about voting for Biden or lying voting about Trump, no.
The vote -- the lie only goes one way, because you would not lie and say you would vote for Trump, because that invites scorn from the media and activists and raises the idea of violence, given the fact that it's now OK to murder a Trump supporter. So the only way you would lie is to protect your life, which means you would say you would vote for Biden.
So you are looking at 10 percent of Republicans lying, 10 percent of Democrats, 10 percent of independents, and five of -- that's a lot of people who are probably going to vote for Trump.
WATTERS: Yeah. And I think we all know why the president hasn't spoken to the Blake family. One call was missed. And then when you found out a little bit more about Jacob Blake's father, maybe that wasn't a good idea. Look him up. Something the media is not telling you about also. Up next, the Secret Service may want to pay Andrew Cuomo a visit after the New York governor's threatening comments against President Trump.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: The ongoing feud between President Trump and Andrew Cuomo not getting any better, President Trump warning he could cut federal funding to Democrat-run cities that have seen months of rising violence and unrest. And that includes New York City, Washington, D.C., Seattle, and Portland. New York Governor Cuomo responding by appearing to threaten the president, watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. ANDREW CUOMO (D-NY): Look, the best thing he did for New York City was leave. Good riddance. Let him go to Florida. Be careful not to get COVID. COVID ambushed New York due to Trump's negligence. He is the cause of COVID in New York. Change his residence to go to Florida, why? He can't come back to New York. He can't. He is going to walk down the street in New York?
Forget body guards. He better have an army if he thinks he is going to walk down the street in New York. No, New Yorkers don't want have anything to do with him. And he knows it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: I much prefer the feud between Cuomo and De Blasio. And actually, that might get us somewhere. Kennedy, we have you back. And you are a New Yorker as well, your thoughts about this feud.
LISA KENNEDY MONTGOMERY, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: He is just trying to sound like a tough guy. And all he is doing is CYA, because Cuomo really screwed up in terms of COVID. All you have to do is look at the 11,000 patients who died in nursing homes when he forced them to take sick patients. And it was a conflagration and it was completely inhumane thing. He hasn't accepted responsibility for that.
And it was a totally heartless move. So what he is trying to do is deflect. It's the same thing that Ted Wheeler does and Kate Brown in Oregon. They're just trying to blame the president in order to skirt accountability, because as long as you are doing that, you don't have to actually do anything. And I challenge them that the presidency is clearly way too powerful of a position.
And that is the result of years and years of abdication on the part of Congress. So if one person is that powerful and can kill so many people, then something is gravely wrong with our political system.
PERINO: Jessica, what about you? You also live in New York. And you've see what is unfolding there. I mean, what do you think should happen? And some of these cities, you know, they have been run by Democrats for years. Does the president have a point?
TARLOV: I'm not sure he has a point in so far as saying that he's going to start withdrawing funds from these cities. But he certainly does when he that Andrew Cuomo is responsible for the 11,000 deaths that Kennedy pointed out. Our own Janice Dean lost both of her in-laws. Her husband's both died in nursing homes. And those outcomes could have been avoided in New York and New Jersey.
Phil Murphy had the same policy that just ended up losing less lives there. Gone are the days of Andrew Cuomo who is thinking of president for the ventilators. Remember that? Or for saving -- sending the ship that we were going to tons of COVID patients on, and no one ever stepped on board. I think that there needs to be a lowering of the temperature.
We have to be realistic about what's going on. And there can be productive discussions about, you know, local, state, and federal officials about how we can get kids back to school safely. We're already seeing colleges having to send people home. So that's my top concern, less ego, more fixing it.
PERINO: Greg, do you think that Cuomo and De Blasio just really want people like Trump and others to leave and go to Florida or elsewhere?
GUTFELD: Well, they need the people they hate to -- the tax base. So short term, it must feel great. But then again, it's also, like, rich, white liberals who are leaving, too. They're kind of the best people socialists would want. They are fleeing as well. So anybody with money is getting out of town. I will congratulate Cuomo on his honesty about how unsafe the New York streets are. He just admitted it. And I think murders are up 51 percent over past August.
So I think that should get Andrew Cuomo on board for indoor dining just to protect citizens from the stray bullets. But I think, to your point, if I had -- if I had, after the downtown looting, said to Bill De Blasio. You know, you better have an army if you come down here, because I'm pissed. I would be probably arrested, because that would be considered a threat.
I just that hope Chris -- Chris and his brother do a nice little comedy routine tonight on CNN when they discuss this. And instead of a giant q- tip, they can have -- how about a torch to help lead the mob when Trump shows up, those tough guys.
PERINO: Viva La Revolution -- revolution, I guess I should say. Jesse, what do think about saying that the president would need an army to come and visit New York? He kind of actually does have an army in the Secret Service.
WATTERS: Yeah. The Democratic Party is now officially the party of violence and threats. It started when they firebombed the limousine at inauguration they haven't looked back since. De Niro says he wants to punch Trump out. Biden says he wants to punch him out. Loretta Lynch says she wants to see blood in the streets. Eric Holder said kick him.
You have Antifa pulling people out of trucks, kicking them in the head, shooting them in the head. Bernie bro shot Steve Scalise. They're swarming and attacking Trump supporters while they are leaving speeches. They're doxxing you. They are surrounding your house. I mean, has anybody been paying attention to what has been said by the celebrities? Madonna wants to blow up the White House.
Johnny Depp and Snoop Dogg talk about assassinating the president? We are just going to pretend like that didn't happen? I mean, the guy has been under fire constantly. And then the left says he is the one fanning the flames. And then they ignore all the video that shows them fanning said flames. What they have done is they've said he is a white supremacist. He is Hitler.
And that justifies all the destructive action that they have taken. But I think it's going to blow up in their face November 3rd. And by the way, I caught Greg calling for another call for in someone else's block. I am watching.
PERINO: You keep a track over there in your little pod. All right, ahead, Joe Biden creating more confusion about where he stands on key issues. What he is now saying about shutting down the country.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MONTGOMERY: Come on, man. Joe Biden creating more confusion, how about that, about where he actually stands on key issues, just a couple of weeks ago, he Biden this about shutting the country down.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you are sworn in come January and we have Coronavirus and the flu combining, which many scientists have said is a real possibility, would you be prepared to shut this country down again?
BIDEN: I would be prepared to do whatever it takes to save lives, because we cannot get the country moving until we control the virus.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So if the scientists say shut it down?
BIDEN: I would shut it down. I would listen to the scientists.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MONTGOMERY: All right. Now, Biden is backtracking. Take a look here.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BIDEN: There is going to be no need, in my view, to be able to shut down the whole economy. I got asked by David (Inaudible) a question. If I was asked to shut everything down, I took that as a generic question if I'm going to follow the science.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MONTGOMERY: Oh, interesting. So following the science, Jessica, how excited do you think people are who are still out of work, whose kids are still out of school about the idea of another shutdown? Do you think that's a good proposition for middle income voters who have been hurt most by the crisis?
TARLOV: No. I don't have kids. And I still have a job. And I am not excited about a shutdown. So I can't imagine how miserable it's been for people that are having to teach, you know, lessons over Zoom. Work at the same time or worry about getting unemployment or when their check is going to come from the government, from the Cares Act or whatever we're going to end up with.
What I am seeing in Joe Biden is a shift that I think is driven by public opinion on this. So Coronavirus has been by far and away the most important issue for November 3rd, for the election. Now, the economy is creeping up. It's the number two election issue. And it's only a few points behind. So I think Joe Biden is telegraphing that he is now understanding that healthcare is also an economic issue.
And that those two messages have to be combined, and that scientists are not going to go back and say we have to be in total shutdown, but we have to work out kind of a nuanced solutions to this where people can get out of their houses and hopefully go back to offices or apply for new jobs if that's what they are looking for.
MONTGOMERY: Dana, obviously, the former vice president, he wants to sound tough, because people like toughness. I think that's what he is going for. But when you have to reverse course and go back on an answer and restate your message while simultaneously blaming the interviewer, doesn't that really set you back?
PERINO: It could, except for that he is the nominee now. And so what happens in every case is that you go to your far left or your far right in the primary, and then you tack to the center and you have to go through a few of these new cycles that make you go through that. This is not the only issue, Kennedy. Fracking is another that comes to mind.
And I'm sure that the -- healthcare is probably going to be another before the end of the election cycle. I feel like Biden is trying to, you know, straddle the fence. And that works if you don't fall off. But -- and the more that he does interviews, of course, he can dust off the cobwebs and try to get a little bit better at it.
But I think that he is going to need to do a few more of these so that he can get those new cycles behind him and try to be pushing towards the front. Besides, you know, they put all of their chips on the Coronavirus. And because of technology, because of the government policy of pushing for a vaccine, we are seeing some better news about COVID-19 that is happening this fall.
And you can't be seen to be against that. Who wants -- you can't talk down the economy. And you can't talk down a cure or a vaccine. And it might just happen around the time of the election. And they are just going to have to deal with that. The numbers that they have to worry about, I agree with Jessica. It's on the economy.
That poll out of Pennsylvania today said that's the number one issue. And it's the only issue that President Trump wins against Biden on, and by quite a large margin.
LISA KENNEDY MONTGOMERY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, the kids are in school, and if we do have a vaccine or more treatments on the immediate horizon, that's better news for the President. Greg, you pointed out at the top of the show that Joe Biden is really fighting himself, that it's Biden versus Biden, and we have another example of that here. So who does Joe -- who is his greater foe? Is it his own gaffes, or his own record, particularly here on the economy?
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Well, my granddad used to say, Kennedy, you straddle the fence, you get to post-up your ass. And as solution I see in the pandemic for the debates -- for the debates, it's a great solution. Biden debates Biden. So, you have him debate the Biden of old. You have the two clips up. He could debate himself on the pandemic, on crime, on race on fracking, on healthcare, on sexism. That way he won't get -- he won't get COVID and everybody will be self-distanced because it'll just be him alone in a room debating himself.
Look, the bigger issue is, the Democrats -- and I understand that they have no interest in solving any problems right now because any kind of solution or good news, let's say on the economy or on race or on COVID is going to naturally help the incumbent, Donald Trump. This is why the Democrats weren't crazy about stopping the violence. They didn't want to accept help from Trump because that made Trump look good, and it would stop the violence. So they rather let people die than help the country, right.
So, they'd rather sacrifice Black, Brown, White citizens to maintain or perhaps gain political power, because if you solve those problems of violence, Trump probably would be reelected.
KENNEDY: So, Peter Doocy had a good question for the vice president, Jesse. He said, if you were so concerned about the Coronavirus back in January, you were Cassandra, you had all the answers, you knew the truth, then why were you having rallies in March? Take it away, Jesse.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Yes. And he didn't answer the question. He rambled and ended up coming to zero conclusion. But that's easy to do with Joe. You asked him simple questions, he doesn't have simple answers. He always talks about this plan that he has for schools or for COVID-19. All I know is it's better than Trump's. How? He won't explain it.
Joe has been pro locked down from the beginning. He's still dangling potential lockdowns in the future. He wanted the initial lockdown to last longer. If you look at the trend charts, 10 years from now we're going to see a lot of the places that lockdown saw an explosion in cases and deaths right afterwards. That may have exacerbated things. A lot of the southern states didn't do those types of lockdowns and they had a much better time of this.
It's the same thing when you ask him about fracking. He's on tape three times in the last couple months saying I'm not for fracking, get rid of fracking, get rid of fossil fuels. Trump calls him out on it. Now, he says he's pro-fracking and Trump's a liar, and the media just goes along with that. He did it with the travel ban. He's done with schools. He's done it with the mask mandate. He's constantly trying to figure out where he is, because he really doesn't know. He just does what they tell him to do.
KENNEDY: All right, so Dana, I want to go back to you a little bit about something very quickly. So, if there is another lockdown, what is it due to the morale of the country? You've already got a massive spike in depression, and you've already got, you know, a massive number of people in large cities not paying rent. What does that do to the morale?
PERINO: Well, of course, I think there's something else we have to remember here. There are some people who are just really worried about getting this virus and especially, we have to be mindful for Blacks and Latinos who have had a disproportionate and negative effect with COVID-19.
So there are -- there are constituencies out there who would say, let's just do whatever we can to keep safe. However, I think that because you've seen all of this hypocrisy with the ruling class basically thwarting the rule so that they could go to dinner and get their hair done, etcetera. I think that there's a lot of people who are just going to say, we're not going to do that.
Now, if it were to come to that, I do think that the country we've got -- we've got it figured out in terms of how many people can work from home. But we are not doing nearly enough for the people who are essential workers or those moms and dads who are trying to figure out how to take care of kids in school. There would -- there would have to be a much more robust plan at the very beginning with a bigger package earlier on, like the Cares Act, or something probably even bigger in order to keep people safe and paying their bills.
KENNEDY: When in doubt, blame the salon. All right, is Facebook trying to tip the scales this November? Find out what the company will do right before the election. That's coming up next on THE FIVE.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Facebook making big election news today announcing that it will block new political ads in the final week before the election to stop misinformation and prevent civil unrest. The social media giant will also flag premature claims of victory from the candidates.
So, I'll go first to Dana who's our resident Zuckerberg expert having interviewed him. And I wonder if you could offer our viewers a little bit of insight into why you think he made this decision and if it will ultimately helped the reputation of Facebook as far as being concerned with misinformation.
PERINO: I don't know if it will help the reputation but I do think it might be able to prevent the Democrats from trying to make Facebook the scapegoat for anything that doesn't go their way in the 2020 election. If you've seen in the last four years, that has been the goal is to focus directly on Facebook even when Mark Zuckerberg testified in front of Congress and said it was -- he put in context, how much Russian propaganda was actually on those -- on his platform.
But that said, I think that Facebook has figured out a way that they can try to take it seriously. But they're not the only ones. Facebook has been working with other social media companies to figure out a way to be a bulwark against any sort of foreign interference or propaganda or sort of misdeeds that are happening on Facebook.
So, I think that everybody that wants to advertise on Facebook will have plenty of money to spend, they'll be able to do it all the way up until that week before. And then in that last week, we'll just have to go to maybe some door knocking old fashioned ways of getting votes.
TARLOV: Yes, if COVID permits, I think Democrats would be happy actually to go door to door come November. Kennedy, I want to go to you on this. You're a resident libertarian on the panel, and I'm curious -- yes, I'm curious what you think of this because, you know, more speech is always good, right? That's what most people think and certainly what libertarians think. But are you concerned by the amount of bad information or misinformation that is available on these social media sites?
KENNEDY: There's bad information everywhere. We are silly with that information right now. And I really think the only thing you can do is employ Aristotle's axiom of seeking counsel of the wise, and the many. So, find people in sources you really, really trust and go to them. And then expand your sources. Instead of just existing in your bubble, go out there and see what has been written on a site or maybe on a network that is unfamiliar to you.
And when you start seeing trends, then maybe you can count that as news. If you're only getting your news from Facebook, you are doing it wrong.
TARLOV: Yes, absolutely. And the same goes for polling, right, to look at the trend lines instead of just saying, oh, there's this outlier poll. It must be it. Greg, I'd love to hear your response to what Kennedy is saying and maybe talk a little bit about how you answered analyze news and what you take as fact versus fiction.
GUTFELD: Well, I don't see Facebook as a problem at all. When I see false information, I can pretty much tell that it's false information. When somebody says something to me, I could smell it, and I go, that's not real. I think that was very -- I think we've overstated it, when in fact, it's not Facebook, we have to worry about, it's CNN, it's the Washington Post, it's the New York Times, the people that pretend to be objective and unbiased, and then position the news in a narrative meaning to create discontent among citizens so that we hate each other. So we create these horrible racial narratives or sex -- or sexual narratives of pitting gender versus gender or race versus race in order to get clicks.
That to me is way more dangerous than anything on Facebook. I mean, Facebook is to me just families keeping in touch and looking up exes. And I won't get into that here, but that'll be for another time.
TARLOV: I'm excited for that. And also, I think I know why you never respond to my e-mails since you say you can smell that information when it comes in. Jesse, I want to kick it to you.
WATTERS: Kick it to me.
TARLOV: The Attorney General sat down with Wolf Blitzer yesterday to talk about the state of everything. And this was just a little bit after the president actually encouraged North Carolinians to vote twice, which we know is a felony in all 50 states. Are you concerned that the President is talking like this and he's been publicly rebuked by the North Carolina Board of Elections? Sandra Smith, held Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany's feet to the fire on this this morning.
So, A, will you disavow what the President said about voting twice? And B, what do you make of what we're going to have to do with mail and voting because people are not going to be able to go to the polls in the same way as a normal election due to COVID?
WATTERS: Well, if Dana is the resident expert on Zuckerberg and Kennedy is the libertarian resident expert, what am I the resident expert at?
TARLOV: Jesse, we'll talk about it later. I'll just do this for you because I know it's been a while.
WATTERS: OK, because I must be the resident expert at something. I'll give this a shot.
TARLOV: OK.
WATTERS: Facebook is far left. 80 percent of their donations go to Democrats, according to the last election cycle. So, Dana was right, they got blamed for Russian ads. So, in order to make up for that, they're trying to dull the impact of Trump's online ads, which are better a week before the election, and then censor him when he declares victory on election night.
That's the strategy. Trump is going to win on election night, and then Democrats are going to sue and extend the voting of all these mail in ballots, they're counted, and then all of a sudden, the rules kick in, they have to stop counting them, and then Trump is an illegitimate president.
That's the game. There's nothing dangerous about in-person voting. You go to the grocery store, you wait in line, that's just the same thing. If you're old, if you're sick, request an absentee ballot. That's no big deal. What's going on is this. They're trying to scare you so you flood the zone with ballots.
But if Nancy Pelosi can go maskless into a salon, that seems safe. You can easily go in and vote with a mask, and everything is going to be just fine.
TARLOV: OK, well, I've decided that you are actually the resident expert on dodging questions because that wasn't what I asked you.
WATTERS: By the way, they just had in-person voting in Vermont and in Minnesota and in Connecticut. Hundreds of thousand people voted in person, and three weeks later, there were less new cases of Coronavirus.
TARLOV: Yes. And there's no evidence of widespread mail voter fraud. People like Cory Gardner --
WATTERS: Because it's never been done nationally. That's why.
TARLOV: Jesse, I will text you later and we will finish this. Coming up, the salon owner is firing back at Nancy Pelosi after the House Speaker claims it was all a setup.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Conflicting claims over what exactly happened during Nancy Pelosi's mask-free day at the salon. The speaker is refusing to apologize and calls the whole thing a set up, but the salon owner is firing back.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She had called the stylist or her assistant did and made the appointment. So, the appointment was already booked. So there's no way I could have set that up. And I've had a camera system in there for five years. I mean, I didn't go in there and turn cameras on as soon as she walked in to set her up. So that's absolutely false.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Now, Pelosi's hairstylist is getting involved. He claims the salon owner approved the appointment. That was my Access Hollywood voice, by the way. I hope you enjoyed it. So Kennedy, who knew there was a hair salon in San Francisco who doesn't like cater to a powerful Democrat? I mean, that's kind of brave what she did.
KENNEDY: I know. Talk about being in the philosophical minority there in San Francisco. But it's not like there was an agent on the street going hey, Nancy, come here. You want to blow off? What are you waiting for? Come inside, man. That's what a setup is. She was not set up. Take responsibility for it.
This is what drives me crazy. If she just took responsibility and apologized and said my hair look like garbage. I needed help. I can't do it myself, which is my case, then I would have so much more respect for her. And I can't stand when politicians and Andrew Cuomo is doing the same thing with COVID.
GUTFELD: Jessica, you have a keen history of politics. This reminds me a little bit of the mayor, Marion Barry, caught doing crack on tape. It's almost exactly the same. Do you -- do you remember what he said? We not say it on T.V.
TARLOV: Oh, OK. Well, I'll look it up.
GUTFELD: He said how he was set up.
TARLOV: Yes, I'll look it up later. Thank you. I hope I'm old enough to see the reaction. I agree with about 90 percent of what Kennedy said there. The extra 10 percent is just her natural vitriol towards Nancy Pelosi. This would have been really easy to just say, I'm sorry, I shouldn't have done it. And now we have news cycles dedicated to something that really isn't a big deal.
And I think we can all accept that that a blowout, you know, six months into a pandemic is something that a woman needs, and certainly one in her position. But this idea, you know, you need to apologize, blah, blah, blah. I don't buy into that. You know, Donald Trump apologized for saying COVID would just go away, apologize for saying we're going to have a health care plan by the end of August. That part of this is silly. But, you know, just say I'm sorry, I shouldn't have gotten the blowout.
GUTFELD: Jesse, I think the big story here is that Fox News got the surveillance footage. I mean, who do we know? Who do we know at the hair salon in San Francisco? How do we get it?
WATTERS: I'm sure the salon owners are Russian agent, Greg, and they're interfering in another election. Here's where it is a big deal though. Because Nancy is getting her hair done at a San Francisco salon while she's holding up, checks for struggling Americans. It's not a good look. Her hair looks good, but there -- it's not a good look.
The other thing is this. If Nancy can stroll in maskless inside to a hair salon, then other people can go in and vote. It shows that this lockdown thing is politicized because Democrats just ignore the rules and it shows that we can open up safely because even Nancy is not afraid of catching the Coronavirus.
GUTFELD: You know, Dana, this scandal could go wait straight to the top or a little bit off the top if you will.
PERINO: Just a litter off the end, just a little cleanup. Look, I would have taken the L. But I'm not a counter puncher, and I am willing to apologize. But that is not invoked right now, not invoked.
GUTFELD: I don't quite understand the subway reference, but OK, if you want to take the L, fine. "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." Some of you guys may remember my cousin Harper Watters, big ballet star, big into the fashion scene. Well, Vogue just wrote an article about him. It's called, "This dancer is redefining ballet style through TikTok." He does these TikToks during the quarantine, and he says when you feel your best, you dance your best.
Now, TikTok may get banned so Harper might have to find a new outlet. But there he is. He obviously got the talent in the family. Woe is me. Dana?
PERINO: Wow. He's great. I love him. I love Harper. All right, Sunday marks a very important anniversary and it all started in Wyoming. 150 years ago, the Louisa Swain became the first woman in the United States to vote in a general election. The Wyoming law, it was passed in 1870. That was 50 years before women's suffrage was enacted into the Constitution.
She was 70 years old at the time. She cast her ballot in Laramie. And the American Trucking Association has teamed up with her foundation to sponsor a truck to her crossing the United States to promote this 150th anniversary. It was in Denver today and Cheyenne before it goes to Laramie. And I want to thank Cynthia Lummis who was this Republican Senate candidate for this year's election there in Wyoming for reminding me of this important anniversary. Go Wyoming.
WATTERS: Go Wyoming. Greg Gutfeld.
GUTFELD: Dana, do you know who she voted for? Trump?
PERINO: In 1870? No.
GUTFELD: Yes, she knew he was coming. She saw the truck train. Yes, you know, I'm going to cede my "ONE MORE THING" just to talk to Jesse about what --
PERINO: The Trump wagon train at the time.
GUTFELD: I just want to ask Jesse why he's putting his relative through hell by complimenting him, so that when he's out, and then he has to tell his friends, hey, are you related to Jesse Watters? Everybody in the dance community is like, you're related to Jesse Watters? He's probably been trying to keep that secret for the past 30 years and you've outed him as a relative?
WATERS: I know.
GUTFELD: What kind of monster are you?
WATERS: I know. I can't believe Vogue didn't mention that I was related to him in the article. That's all for us tonight, "SPECIAL REPORT" is up next with Bret.
Content and Programming Copyright 2020 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2020 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.