Gutfeld: Taliban names well-known terrorists to new government
'The Five' react to the news that the Taliban has appointed former Guantanamo Bay inmates to government roles in Afghanistan
NEW
You can now listen to Fox News articles!
This is a rush transcript of "The Five" on September 8, 2021. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated.
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS HOST (on camera):  You've been noticing after 
(Inaudible). Hi. I'm Greg Gutfeld, along with Dagen McDowell, Jessica 
Tarlov, Jesse Watters, and the last time she withdrew her savings she fell 
into the piggy bank, Dana Perino. THE FIVE. 
The Taliban has formed a new government in Afghanistan and big surprise, it 
is filled with terrorists. And sorry, not a single female among them. It's 
so sexist. Their incoming cabinet includes four jihadists released from 
Gitmo by the Obama administration in exchange for U.S. army deserter Bowe 
Bergdahl back in 2014. 
Gee, who could have predicted these disasters outcome.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CO-HOST:  Most of the people that are in Gitmo maybe 
they were picked up in Afghanistan but they've been picked up all over the 
world. They are terrorists, they're enemy combatants, they're not prisoners 
of war. 
GUTFELD:  So, basically, what you have is catch and release game with 
maniacs, it's OK to let them go but you got to kill them when they get out 
of there because they're going to come back. It's absolutely, it's insane.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
GUTFELD (on camera): Who is that gorgeous truth teller? Then there's the 
Taliban's new interior minister, he's wanted by the FBI with a $10 million 
bounty on his head and he's believed to be holding at least one American 
hostage. And this after saying just yesterday, there was no hostage like 
situation with the Taliban stopping Americans from leaving. Secretary of 
State Antony Blinken is now changing his tune. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  As of now the Taliban are not 
permitting the charter flights to depart. They claimed that some of the 
passengers do not have the required documentation. Those flights need to be 
able to depart. And we will work every day to make sure that they are able 
to do that. We will continue to press the Taliban to allow the charters to 
leave. 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD (on camera): You know, Dana, I love how the State Department was 
surprised and dismayed that it was an all-male cabinet. It's like they 
expected the, you know, a brochure on diversity from a local college. 
PERINO:  And it was -- and then the statement that said we're very 
disappointed, we're very concerned.
GUTFELD:  Yes.
PERINO:  It's like strong letter to follow to the Taliban. 
GUTFELD:  Yes. Yes.
PERINO:  Like if they thought they were going to be more friendly, that's 
like getting high on your own supply if you know what I mean. 
GUTFELD:  I bet you do know what you mean, Dana. 
PERINO:  Yesterday you brought up the point that we have to ban the phrase, 
the world is watching. 
GUTFELD:  Yes.
PERINO:  Like the world is averting its eyes.
GUTFELD:  Right.
PERINO:  Because now what's the world going to do when these characters but 
together their government, not only do they have the detainees from the 
Bowe Bergdahl exchange, but they also have invited some countries to the 
ceremony. And the countries are Russia, China and Iran. 
GUTFELD:  Wow.
PERINO:  And so yes, that's happening. 
GUTFELD:  That's amazing. We weren't even asked. 
PERINO:  I don't if we were on the list, maybe. And I also feel that with 
Secretary Blinken's comments are one. We talked about this semantics over 
the word hostage yesterday.
GUTFELD:  Right.
PERINO:  And at this point I'm like, OK, so there are people that can come 
to America, they've got their paperwork, there might be American citizens 
amongst the group also with people who helped Americans and the Taliban 
won't let them go. 
To me, like that's the -- you look up in Webster's --
GUTFELD:  Yes.
PERINO:  -- that is the definition. And I think he is a soft-spoken person. 
It would be nice to see a little fire and a little determination that yes, 
we are going to get the people back. 
GUTFELD:  They seem like they don't know what to do. They are in a 
quagmire, a word I just came up with. Jessica, I noticed in the new cabinet 
not a single trans individual. What do you say about this? 
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR:  That's what I'm most upset about.
GUTFELD:  Yes.
TARLOV:  About the situation currently. It was kind of like, you know when 
there is a new administration comes in but they're never actually like a 
new administration because they are holdovers from the last time, there is 
Republican or Democrat. And this is like the greatest hits of terrorists 
from the 1990s. 
GUTFELD:  Right.
TARLOV:  Right.
PERINO:  Yes.
TARLOV:  Like people who went into bunkers essentially for 20, 30 years and 
now they are back in there in prominent positions. And Dana, you referenced 
Russia, China, and Iran getting the invitation to the inauguration. While 
the rest of the world can't come because we'll be thinking about the lives 
that we lost on 9/11 --
PERINO:  Right.
TARLOV:  -- because they're doing it on 9/11 which is probably the greatest 
troll --
GUTFELD:  Right.
TARLOV:  -- of all time, you know, as we're sitting here having a somber 
moment as our allies who went to war with us over what happened when we 
lost 3,000 plus Americans in one day, and then obviously, you know, they 
are countless lives since then. 
It's terrible. It's a hard-liner government and the people are sitting on 
these plains. Like what do you do? I mean, you're ready to go. Obviously, 
the paperwork they are lying that they don't have the right paperwork, no 
one got on those flights without it but it's government plans. 
And then, it's also charter flights, like Glenn Beck had a bunch of planes 
that were held back, he's paying $750,000 per plane, couldn't get them off 
the ground a couple days ago. It's really diplomatic disaster at this 
point. 
GUTFELD:  Yes. This is, it's beyond belief. When you think about Bowe 
Bergdahl, Dagen, I mean, you know, we -- how -- we knew that was going to 
happen and now it's happening, now they are in charge. That trade.
DAGEN MCDOWELL, FOX NEWS BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, for a deserter.
GUTFELD:  Yes.
MCDOWELL:  I am just astonished by the language, maybe I shouldn't be 
surprised by the language that Tony Blinken is using, that they were 
dismayed that the Taliban interim government wasn't inclusive, and he's 
calling them, they have challenging track records. 
Listen, the Taliban is horrible and evil and they will always be horrible 
and evil, there is no born-again Taliban. And that's who we just 
surrendered to. That with the greatest dishonor, and now putting our 
Americans and our allies in the greatest danger, even here at home. 
But this goes -- in terms of the language this goes to what Carter did with 
the Soviet Union and Clinton did it with Al Qaeda, Obama did it with Iran. 
They act like, well, you know, everyone if we just may be hope and not pray 
because that's evil, right? They just evolve into good Democrats. 
That if you treat them say with Iran, if you just treat them like a normal 
western government, then if you treat them like Britain than they will be 
Britain and that just -- it doesn't happen. 
Regular folks, you always talk about the rubes and rednecks and the 
hayseeds with love, and if you talk to them we know looking at a rogue or 
reprobate that you can't treat them like a normal dude because they will 
come at you and they will steal from you because they are a rogue and a 
reprobate. But these people in the Biden administration don't seem to know 
that about a terrorist organization. 
GUTFELD:  Yes. It's like dating somebody, you can't change them. They are 
going to be a terrorist no matter what. You know, Jesse, when I told you 
that the Taliban also banned sports for girls you said now there is 
something I could get behind. I couldn't --
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS HOST:  Which sports? 
GUTFELD:  Sports, yes.
WATTERS:  I think they should be able to play some, not all. 
GUTFELD:  There you go.
WATTERS:  So, if I could go back in time --
GUTFELD:  Yes.
WATTERS:  -- and change one thing what do you think that would be? 
(CROSSTALK)
PERINO:  All time.
WATTERS:  I'll answer it for you. All time. I would go back in time and 
make sure that Barack Obama was never president. I don't know how I would 
do it, but here's why. It's like, you kill two birds with one stone because 
if Barack wasn't president, then Joe Biden wouldn't be president. Butterfly 
effect. The book was better than the movie. 
Think about what Barack Obama did in Afghanistan. Even I can't even take it 
seriously --
(CROSSTALK)
PERINO:  You read the book?
WATTERS:  No, my friends brother produced the movie. He is the one that 
surge 100,000 troops into Afghanistan. He was the one that nation built. 
He's the one that trained the Afghan army. He was the one that got 
hoodwinked by the Pakistanis. That Bin Laden was just hiding there in plain 
sight. 
He was the one that told us on all this great progress there that was a 
mirage. He was the one that traded five Taliban commanders for a deserter. 
I'm not sure. Four of them are now back. 
GUTFELD:  Right.
WATTERS:  I don't know what the other one is doing. He's like assistant to 
the regional commander in Afghanistan. And Barack Obama was supposed to be 
the smart one. Remember Joe Biden was the joke, Obama was smart? And now 
the joke is president, the joke is on us. How stupid do the feds look? 
The feds put Trump campaign officials behind bars, and then they released 
the Taliban. The feds framed Carter Page for colluding with the Russians, 
yet the FBI's most wanted terrorist in Afghanistan is colluding with Al 
Qaeda. Is holding American citizen hostage and Joe Biden wouldn't even call 
them the enemy. He doesn't want to offend the enemy.
So, they're now upset there's no women in the government. It's an onion 
article. Joe Biden thinks he can Me, Too the Taliban. The world is 
watching. Who is the world? The mullahs don't have women in the cabinet. Do 
the Saudis have women? They're concerned, Blinken. I mean, Blinken, Antony, 
where is the h? Maybe that's why he lacks the fire. There's no h. 
GUTFELD:  My God.
WATTERS:  Instead of being so concerned about the gender of the Taliban 
cabinet, be concerned about stranded Americans. 
GUTFELD:  Look, you know, I was just going to say, Biden doesn't like the 
Taliban because it's hard to sniff hair under a burqa. 
WATTERS:  Greg. 
PERINO:  Greg.
TARLOV:  That's wasn't the reputation I was looking for.
GUTFELD:  Yes.
TARLOV:  I know we have very limited time, there was a lot of stuff that 
just flew out of Jesse's mouth. 
GUTFELD:  Yes.
TARLOV:  So, if you could go back in time and you can undo one thing, I 
sincerely doubt that that would be making Barack Obama president. The surge 
--
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  The first thing, maybe the first thing. I get to some other stuff 
after.
TARLOV:  OK. The surge is widely looked upon in all political circles 
actually as being one of the most successful parts actually of the war on 
terror. 
WATTERS:  In Iraq. 
PERINO:  That was in --
(CROSSTALK)
WATTERS:  In Iraq, not necessarily in Afghanistan. 
PERINO:  Right.
TARLOV:  OK. Well, they're -- we'll get other people in the show to talk 
about that. OK. We have to go, but basically, everything that you said 
basically it was kind of absurd. 
GUTFELD:  This might have been the best discussion ever about Afghanistan. 
PERINO:  Like in the history --
GUTFELD:  Yes. Days away from the 20th anniversary of 9/11, Americans feel 
less safe under President Biden.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS (on camera): We are three days away from the 20th anniversary of 
9/11 and the majority of Americans don't feel safe from the terror threat. 
Just 49 percent say the United States is more secure than it was before the 
attacks. That's down from 64 percent a decade ago, maybe this is why. 
President Biden has botched Afghanistan withdrawal and the Taliban return 
to power could turn the war-torn country back into a terrorist safe haven. 
And DHS Secretary Mayorkas says that while there is no credible threat, 
well, he is still concerned. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY:  We've 
seen the threat evolve from the foreign terrorist seeking to enter the 
United States to the individual here radicalized to violence by a foreign 
terrorist ideology, to now, what we consider the most serious terrorism 
related threat on our homeland which is the domestic violent extremists. 
So, am I concerned? Yes. I'm concerned today, tomorrow and I was concerned 
yesterday. 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS (on camera): Well, Dagen, he's not too concerned because he's -- 
the border is wide open and people are just pouring across. So he can save 
that. Why do you think the American people are more concerned at this 
point? 
MCDOWELL:  Because everything that this administration touches turns into 
chaos. I think that's the word that Greg has used over and over again. The 
-- you know what, just sounding like you drank half a bottle of Benadryl 
doesn't make us feel good. When the world spiraling out of control. It's 
not only to keep us safe, their jobs, it's to make us feel safe. 
And if you look at what happened in Afghanistan clearly but it's also how 
they have not stood up to China on the Wuhan virus. Tony Blinken met with a 
Chinese official in March and sat there and let that official lambaste him 
about the sins of America and he was like, didn't do anything, didn't say 
anything. 
So, when is Biden going to stand up to China on the Wuhan virus? And by the 
way, you can connect the two because Al Qaeda was running bioweapons labs 
20 years ago. They probably learned something from the what, four and a 
half million people who've died worldwide because of a single virus that 
spread around, it's more than 650,000 Americans? So that's why people are 
utterly freaked out. 
WATTERS:  And it's not just Republicans, Dana in the polls. It says 
independents and Democrats also are much more concerned. 
PERINO:  Yes. So, independents are fickle voters usually, they pretty much 
don't like either political party so they like to -- and basically, they 
don't like Washington. But what you would hope is that they could at least 
trust Washington. You can dislike but still hope. 
I do think actually on the merits the United States is safer today than it 
was on September 10th, 2001. 
WATTERS Yes.
PERINO:  There's a couple of reasons. One, this is kind of, it's 
unbelievable to think about now but at the time it was illegal for the 
intelligence community and law enforcement to share information with each 
other. And you think back and like, what in the world, how could that 
possibly happen? 
That changed in the Patriot Act. And even though it is still not perfect, 
at least that does us make us safer. But still two things are true, they 
were true then, and they are true now. Which is, the terrorists only have 
to be right once. 
WATTERS:  Right.
PERINO:  And you know, that could be with a weapon of mass destruction or 
not. But they don't have to be right once, we have to be right every single 
time. That means we have to have a committed focus on this. 
The second thing that's so true is that this is a generational war on 
ideology. So, you have to fight it from various different perspectives. I 
think you have to stay on offense. And I wonder if the American people it 
just feels like right now that they feel like we are on defense and that 
doesn't feel good. I don't think that's necessarily true. But again, it is 
also how you feel.
Congressman Michael Waltz today said that Afghanistan under the Taliban is 
now a terrorist super state. And Josh Kraushaar of the National Journal, I 
highly recommend his column today about the politics about all of this. You 
could see a return of the security moms of 2004 because yes, the economy is 
a critically important but if you do not feel secure, that's your first 
priority. 
GUTFELD:  Soccer moms, security moms, a lot of moms, Greg. 
GUTFELD:  Yes. Yes.
PERINO:  Yes.
GUTFELD:  So, if Afghanistan is a terrorist state then that makes us the 
world's largest sponsor of terror. With like $30 billion worth of weapons. 
WATTERS:  From (Inaudible).
GUTFELD:  Yes. So Majorca said, is that his name?
PERINO:  Mayorkas, yes.
GUTFELD:  Close.
TARLOV:  Majorca is just a place to go.
GUTFELD:  It is. I get confused. He said there's no credible threat unless 
it's white supremacist in face paint. So, you wonder, why is it that when 
the Democrats enter power, we instinctively feel less safe? It's that 
reason because we'd met the enemy and to them is always going to be us. You 
know?
We've had terror under both parties, but we feel like the Dems are always 
more concerned about our phobic response to it, right? So, whenever there 
was like something awful that would happen and beheading or a terror 
attack, the Fox would -- the Fox -- the Fox. Fox News would cover it but 
other cable channels would be obsessed with Islamophobia.
So, the phobic response, Dana, it would be actualized attacks which is why 
they always often denied the signs of organic terror of converted Islamic 
radicals. So, I don't know. Maybe when -- if Al Qaeda decides to attack, 
they will identify as white supremacist, which by the way is cultural 
appropriation. Which would be probably the most offensive thing about it to 
the hard-left progressives. 
You got to worry about bioterror, cyber terror and what was the last one, 
attacks on our grid. 
PERINO:  Yes.
GUTFELD:  That's the new thing.
PERINO:  Yes.
GUTFELD:  I don't think it's going to be like the 9/11 or those types of 
spectacles but it could be something far more sinister or even more 
constructive if they could shut down a country. 
WATTERS:  Jessica?
TARLOV:  OK. Thank you. 
WATTERS:  You're welcome.
TARLOV:  Yes. China on the grid this is happening. I mean, Leon Panetta has 
been talking about this for a long time now that we are not going to have 
traditional warfare anymore, and we are starting to see that certainly from 
China and Russia and Iran and we'll see kind of how the Middle Eastern 
players get into this. 
In terms of the drop of feelings of security from 64 percent a decade ago 
down to 49 percent today. Around 9/11 things do get a little antsier for 
people. You just can't help but be reminded of what's going on. It's 
obviously across -- every paper you open, any channel you turn to.
But now, we have 9/11 plus. Right? We have these images of what's going on 
actually in a hub of Islamic extremist terror. And that's really 
compounding things for people. And Greg has mentioned a few times that this 
was a story that people could largely turn away from over the past few 
years. 
I mean, foreign policy and that's obviously thinking about it all the time 
and it certainly mattered. But now, there is no escaping, basically our 
worst national nightmare which is what 9/11 was. And I think that that's a 
very tough thing for a lot of people especially heading into the 20th 
anniversary. 
And it's informing how Secretary Mayorkas who, maybe likes Majorca is 
talking about what's going on, see of the domestic threat which has been 
huge and prevalent the past few years compounded now with a new foreign 
threat that we hadn't thought in a long time.
MCDOWELL:  Can I just add one --
WATTERS:  Yes, sure.
MCDOWELL:  I want to thank Andy McCarthy who's talk to me a lot on the 
phone and he is dismayed. He covered a lot of points talking to me that 
Dana did, but he's dismayed that we seem to be repeating what we did 30 
years ago. And he said they don't understand the Jihadist enemy and they 
refuse -- and to Greg's point, that conservatives get treated as if they're 
evil because we refuse to coddle the enemy that is being sheltered by the 
left. 
WATTERS:  All good point except for me. Street Fentanyl just surging in 
America. Too high-profile cases highlighting that major problem, next on 
THE FIVE. 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MCDOWELL (on camera): Two high-profile drug overdose cases show America's 
street Fentanyl crisis is far from over. Comedian Fuquan Johnson was one of 
three victims who died last week after investigators say they consumed a 
batch of cocaine that had been laced with Fentanyl during a party in Los 
Angeles. And police reportedly think "The Wire" actor Michael K. Williams 
may have overdosed on Fentanyl after he was found dead in his New York City 
apartment. 
That, as the deadly drug is up to 100 times more potent than heroin that 
keeps pouring into this country. Fed say a shipment they seized from Mexico 
had enough Fentanyl to kill hundreds of thousands of people. 
PERINO:  Wow.
MCDOWELL:  Greg?
GUTFELD:  I know you guys get tired of me talking about this, but I'm going 
to do the whole refrain, I mean, the whole reframing of this, and that it 
is not an overdose. These are not overdoses. These are poisonings. These 
victims are not overdosing on Fentanyl. They are doing a different drug 
that is spike by fentanyl. 
This is very important that you understand that so you separate it from the 
drug user or the junkie. Fentanyl is made in China, it has killed everybody 
from Tom Petty to Prince, to Mac Miller and now Michael Williams, a great 
actor. 
And these deaths, you know, these deaths could be prevented but I'll get to 
that. This was much like what happened with prohibition when alcohol was 
illegal people were dying from poorly made booze mixed with bad chemicals. 
The solution was they legalized it and that went away. 
The big story here is that it's spreading from heroin to coc. So now, if 
you're a parent with kids in college you can say to yourself, Buffy and 
Steve (Ph), don't do coc. You don't know that. A lot of kids in college try 
it once, they try it once in a party, a friend says try it. All it takes is 
one and Buffy (Ph) is not coming back. 
So, this is -- this is a -- I mean, all it takes is one line of Fentanyl 
and you're dead. And this is a -- this is China sponsored terror that's 
killing tens of thousands of Americans a year. Its street substance is 
doing the killing, it's not prescription drugs. Yet we're punishing the 
patients, the cancer patients and the fen patients by telling them they 
can't get the oxy that they need, they give them tramadol. Give me a break. 
It's kind of like going after gun control going after law-abiding gun 
owners instead of the gangs. So, the solution is, identify the problem, 
it's Fentanyl poisoning imported by China, stateside terror. Two, take out 
the producers of it as if they are a terror cell. China can help do that, 
but we could just do it independently. And lay off prescribers and doctors 
and patients who are not abusing the drug and leave them alone. That's my 
solution.
MCDOWELL: Right, Dana, a lot of doctors -- to Greg's point -- a lot of 
doctors have said there's no data showing people are -- more people are 
struggling with substance abuse. But you see more overdoses because of the 
tainted -- it's tainted drugs with Fentanyl. It's a controlled substance 
like cocaine, but they have no control over it. 
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: Yes. I'll never forget interviewing a 
couple who lost one of their children, a teen who COVID School Board never 
tried it before. You can get it basically on Uber Eats or whatever. Door -- 
it comes right to the door. The first time he ever tried. It was laced with 
Fentanyl. He died. 
And they had no hope -- it wasn't like getting him to rehab and helping 
him. Like, it was just over. But it's amazing how many of these issues 
actually come back to the border because this is another political 
albatross that the administration seems to just not -- either not know what 
to do with or don't care, because one of the things that they keep finding 
is that while they're produced in China, they're coming across borders -- 
the port border as well as maybe ports of entry. But the southern border is 
a huge problem.
MCDOWELL: Yeah, what does Mayorkas have to say about that, Jess?
JESSICA TARLOV, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: That he loves to vacation in 
Majorca. So, we do know about a lot of this Fentanyl that's coming because 
it is being stopped, like that big shipment that we were talking about. 
That's something that we know about because the feds were able to 
confiscate it. 
But this transformation from it becoming something that's used for people 
who can't get their hands on opioids because they have real pain problems 
to party drug time is a really tremendous problem in this. And it was 
interesting, I was reading some accounts from people would actually 
interview drug dealers about what's going on, and they were saying that 
there's a supply chain problem in the drug world, just the same way that 
you can't get lumber to build your houses, that we had gas shortages, 
etcetera. So, COVID-19 has clamped down on everything. 
And I thought that that was really interesting. So, they're turning to less 
expensive alternatives which they're liking. I guess you don't get as many 
repeat customers if you kill them. 
GUTFELD: Right. 
TARLOV: And now the kids are back at school, they were watched for a whole 
year, right? And now, they're finally let loose there. They may be 
vaccinated, but they want a party. They're 18, 19 years old. And just on 
the Michael K. Williams front, there's an amazing article on NewJersey.com
from couple of years ago called the redemption of Michael K. Williams that 
I recommend everyone read where he talks about his road to sobriety, which 
obviously has been -- that did not end well for him, the role of religion 
in his life and finding a great community for him. In specific, Rev. Ron I 
think is the name of the Reverend that he used to see in New Jersey.
MCDOWELL: What do you think about comparing lumber to Fentanyl that's 
killed much people?
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL: Well, the supply chain has moved a little 
to India, but it's still primarily coming out of China. And Joe Biden has 
got to do something about this because he is in a unique position because 
his son was an addict, but he doesn't talk about it. And he actually just 
reduced sentencing guidelines for illicit Fentanyl traffickers here in the 
United States. That was his proposal. And he was asked about it on a CNN 
Town Hall. What are you going to do? And his answer was, we're going to 
hire more lawyers at the Department of Justice. 
That's not a strategy. That's patronage. Then he says, oh, yes, it's about 
China. They got to do something. Well, Joe has to make China do something. 
And a lot of people are asking questions because Hunter has got a stake 
worth millions in these Chinese concerns. Is that why Biden hasn't been 
tough? He had a perfect opportunity to take that lab leak intel report and 
turn the screws to the Chinese. Instead, they whitewashed it. 
If that had come out honestly, they could have said, this is on you. You 
killed 600,000 Americans. We want money. We want accountability. What are 
you going to do? One of the things Chinese could have done is crackdown on 
these manufacturers, the drug chemists, and all the shipments that go out. 
But Biden doesn't use leverage like that. He's not smart enough. So, we 
still just get washed in through these cartels that bring it through Mexico 
into the border and we're getting killed. And he's -- it's because of his 
donors don't want to make waves with the Chinese. He wants to get reelected 
more than he wants to fight these Chinese drug warriors.
MCDOWELL: It's like Greg says, terrorism.
WATTERS: It is. 
MCDOWELL: So, killing 650,000 Americans -- 
WATTERS: You got to be more aggressive.
MCDOWELL: The Wuhan virus, killing 650,000 Americans, that wasn't enough 
there. 
GUTFELD: Yes.
MCDOWELL: Again, day after day, dead Americans. 
GUTFELD: The Fentanyl today. 
WATTERS: Yes. This is 100,000 almost a year.
MCDOWELL: Dead American, dead American, and nothing from Biden. Ahead, a 
COVID crackdown on college football. Dr. Tony Fauci and the media scolding 
fans from going back to the stadium. 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
TARLOV: Welcome back. College football fans are once again packing stadiums 
across the country and it's giving Dr. Anthony Fauci and some of the media 
heartburn.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI, CHIEF MEDICAL ADVISER TO THE PRESIDENT: No, I don't 
think it's smart. The rule is going to be, if you want to participate, you 
get vaccinated. If not sorry, you're not going to be able to do it. 
JOY REID, HOST, MSNBC: As soon as I saw it, I thought COVID is about to 
have a feast. What did you think? 
JIM SCIUTTO, ANCHOR, CNN: If we keep doing this, are we going to be kind of 
stuck in outbreak mode?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: America is acting like the threat from COVID is over 
even though the fact is we're actually much worse off than we were a year 
ago.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
TARLOV: OK, so Dana, I'm curious what's your take on this. Unless -- I've 
seen that now the CDC recommends outdoor masking but we still haven't seen 
an update to the science aspect of it that you're going to get it you're 
outdoors. I thought that it was the safe spot.
PERINO: Right. Well, and I think that it still is. It seems to me that 
there could have just been some political pressure from somewhere. Well, 
where might that be? So, today, we find out that the CDC revised some of 
its mask guidance a while ago. Remember when all of a sudden they said, 
people -- that are even if you're vaccinated, you have to mask? And 
everybody was like, where did that come from? It turns out this teacher's 
unions were agitating and giving pressure, and that's when the CDC changes 
guidance. 
So, if I were a college student, and I'm looking at European Soccer League, 
because I know a lot of them do, but I have to watch a lot of it in my 
house. They've been -- they've had fans there for several weeks and it 
doesn't seem to have been a problem. So, I could imagine that a lot of 
these college students are going to say, put that where the sun don't 
shine.
GUTFELD: Oh, Dana.
WATTERS: Dana. 
PERINO: Is that bad? 
GUTFELD: Yes, that was bad. 
PERINO: OK. 
TARLOV: Do you have anything else to say?
GUTFELD: Sure. They're saying that COVID could have a feast, but they 
didn't feel that way during the protests, right, when everybody was filling 
the streets. We -- initially, we had one goal, and that was to return to 
normal. That's what everybody agreed on. But the media has turned it -- 
turned normal into deadly. It's exactly the opposite of you know, keep calm 
and carry on. Now, it's keep screaming and carry three masks. 
But we predicted this when this whole thing started. We said this is going 
to be a battle between adults who understand benefits and risk analysis, 
and politicians in media who are too cowardly to deal with risk and do not 
want to accept risk because they don't want to be blamed. So, they had -- 
so instead, every day there's going to be this kind of reporting because 
there's always going to be a little bit of risk involved. The media should 
not be listened to except for this show and my show and maybe Jesse's.
WATTERS: Speaking of your show. 
GUTFELD: Yes.
WATTERS: You're promoting Trump on "GUTFELD!" Who's Harrison? 
GUTFELD: Oh, from Pawn Stars. 
WATTERS: OK. It should just be Trump. You do Trump and Harrison. Oh, 
Harrison from Pawn Stars. I don't know that. 
GUTFELD: I didn't do that. 
WATTERS: You need to fix that graphic. My goodness. My goodness.
GUTFELD: I like they're saying -- 
WATTERS: Trump gets the solo promo. Are you new? Now, everyone is going to 
watch it. 
TARLOV: That was all your talking time, by the way.
WATTERS: No, no, actually, I made a list. You know, I have a list. Here are 
the events that Dr. Anthony Fauci did not nag us about, Black Lives Matter 
protests, the CNN concert in Central Park, Obama's massive Vinyard birthday 
party, Lollapalooza in Chicago, and all these caravans and illegals coming 
across.
Here's what Dr. Fauci did nag us about, Sturgis, college football, SEC 
football, and anytime more than three people get together in Florida. Have 
you noticed something about Dr. Fauci? He's not an equal opportunity 
nagger. He plays favorites. That would be like if Fauci criticized me every 
time I went to football games, but every time you went to your Dixie Chicks 
concert, he never said squat. 
GUTFELD: It's the chicks.
WATTERS: The chicks, right? That's why you know he's not playing it 
straight. 
TARLOV: He should have stepped to the SoulCycle game we were playing. 
Dagen, final thoughts. 
MCDOWELL: The man that causes instantaneous acid indigestion on site, Tony 
Fauci, not you, Jesse. 
WATTERS: Thank you.
MCDOWELL: He had nothing to say -- add to your list baseball games, you 
know, despite the fact that he has the arm of a 3-year-old? 
WATTERS: Yes. 
MCDOWELL: He said nothing about baseball games. Stadiums have been packed 
watching baseball for weeks, if not months. But now because, let's see, 
college football is a red state sport. 
WATTERS: Right.
MCDOWELL: It's the Neanderthals with the tailgate. 
GUTFELD: In his defensive, it'll be the only time, do you think it's -- it 
depends on who asked the question?
PERINO: Yes, of course. 
GUTFELD: Yes. 
TARLOV: Yes. 
WATTERS: Well, he's getting asked questions because he's on TV every day. 
GUTFELD: Yes, that's true. 
WATTERS: We've been warning you. 
TARLOV: Well, he has a pretty big job. 
MCDOWELL: I do love CNN complaining about people in the football games 
exhaling with vigor. Exhaling with vigor. 
WATTERS: With vigor. 
MCDOWELL: That's my -- 
GUTFELD: When you breathe, you have blood on your hands. 
TARLOV: We have to go with vigor right now. "THE FASTEST" is up next. 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: Welcome back. It's time for "THE FASTEST." First up, you know when 
you sit down to watch TV after a long day and then you find yourself just 
flipping around forever trying to figure out what to put on. Well, 
apparently people spend, get this, more than 100 days of their lives 
deciding shows and movies to watch as if that's like a show, Jesse.
WATTERS: I don't have this problem. I wait until other people watch shows 
and then the buzz develops. And then I'll be watching it years later. 
PERINO: So, you're a follower.
WATTERS: Right, I'm a follower. Like, I'm just going to get into the 
Sopranos this year. Like, it's kind of built up and people -- enough people 
have said watch the Sopranos. 
PERINO: OK. Have you watched The Wire? 
WATTERS: No, but that's next after the Sopranos. 
PERINO: OK, Jessica, do you have this problem?
TARLOV: Definitely. Even when I know what I want to watch, I'll get lost on 
the way there. If there's like a movie that you love, you know how they'll 
go through months where they'll show like Pretty Woman every day, and then 
you're suddenly watching Pretty Woman every day. It's like Goodfellas is on 
right now, like eight times. 
PERINO: And do you scroll or do you know what you're going to watch? 
MCDOWELL: I don't waste a minute. Fox News, keep it on Fox News 24/7. 
PERINO: Very good. Give her a raise. How about you?
GUTFELD: She took my talking point. This is why Fox News is so successful. 
I call it the -- I call it the blue aquarium. Like, just keep it on. Like, 
keep it on at all times. Look, here comes Tucker. He comes around. And then 
he wait a couple of hours, and then it comes around again, and then there's 
Hannity up here. He comes down. It's like -- it's a cable news aquarium. I 
live in the little castle. I came out of the castle. 
But it's great because if you just keep it on, you have all the friends you 
need, recognizable people. Look, there's Jesse. He's hosting seven. And 
there's -- oh, there's Dana. It's just like why -- who needs anything else? 
Especially Netflix, the more options you have, the more loathing you have 
for that whole thing. Isn't that weird? 
It's like when you look at the wall of stuff on Netflix and you go like 
there's nothing there. But then you go on YouTube, and you can find podcast 
and you go, oh, this looks great. And you turn it on and it's awesome.
PERINO: We have a problem in that we have -- Peter and I have very 
different tastes in what we like to watch but he will -- he will watch 
things that I like to watch, but I won't watch things he does. So -- but 
you know how it says when you turn it on? It's like, is this for Peter or 
for Dana? If you accidentally end up in Peter's world, it will be like 
terrorism, suspense -- 
TARLOV: Soccer?
PERINO: Well, I can -- I can handle soccer. 
GUTFELD: And then, you ended to just porn. 
PERINO: I mean, I clear my history for sure. Do we have time for this next 
one, guys? OK, so, in the quarantine, nobody has any hobbies anymore. 60 
percent of people have felt the urge to do something outside of their 
comfort zone since a pandemic. But the average person has not tried 
anything new in two months. Does that includes you?
GUTFELD: Yes. I don't try anything new period. I just find variety in my 
comforts. So, I like ribs. So, I just keep trying to find new ways to have 
ribs. 
PERINO: I don't -- I guess food is something new. Do you have anything else 
new?
WATTERS: Well, I had a baby during the pandemic. I got a new haircut. I 
wrote a book, How I Save the World, still where books are sold. 
PERINO: Yes. Jessica, are you try anything new? I mean, you got something 
new coming.
TARLOV: Yes. And now the audience knows. So, I'm pregnant. This is not how 
-- 
GUTFELD: Nicely done. 
TARLOV: I'm really sorry. 
PERINO: You could have said anything. First of all, I thought people knew. 
I am so sorry. 
TARLOV: It's totally -- yes, I also learned how to make sourdough bread 
like everybody.
PERINO: OK, OK. That would have been a great answer. Can we congratulate 
Jessica altogether?
WATTERS: Congratulations. 
MCDOWELL: I can't top it other than -- the only think I can top it with is 
like partner swaps or orgies. 
PERINO: No, and even that is not a topic, the news that we have -- 
MCDOWELL: No, I meant your -- 
PERINO: I thought it was old news. 
MCDOWELL: You give it away. I didn't mean her with the --
GUTFELD: Well, she does -- she make sourdough bread and buns.
PERINO: Maybe this is a good reason I shouldn't have two shows. I'm just 
tired. But anyway, Jessica, I'm thrilled and I'm living through -- 
TARLOV: I'm excited too. We're excited. There was another person involved, 
my lovely husband.
GUTFELD: There goes -- she was doing a gender reveal with a -- with a 
biplane. 
TARLOV: With a -- with a big gun, like an AR-15. 
WATTERS: I just can't believe I didn't blow that. 
PERINO: I'm dying. "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
GUTFELD: Awesome.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Once a week. All right, time for "ONE MORE THING." Let's do this. 
Greg's plugs. Yes, all right. You know, tonight, I got 45, Donald Trump on. 
This is part one of five interviews. Let's take a look. 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Do you remember how much I hated you for that brief period of 
time? 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: There was a period of 
time when you weren't a fan, and then you started -- and now I think -- I 
don't know if it's love, but it's getting close and we like it. 
GUTFELD: It's -- I wouldn't say it's love, but I would say it's admiration.
TRUMP: Thank you.
GUTFELD: And also admitting that I was wrong because I was focusing on 
words and not deeds. 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: That's just a taste. Also, it'll be on tonight. We got two parts -
- two parts tomorrow. It'll blow your mind. Also, "Gutfeld Live. Go to my 
Web site to find out ticket info, ggutfeld.com. I'll be in Memphis in 
October, Birmingham in November, Newark, New Jersey, December. Go to 
ggutfeld.com live with Tom Shillue. All right, it's -- Jesse.
WATTERS: I'm going to watch that. 
GUTFELD: Please do. 
WATTERS: And I never watch exclamation. But I am going to watch that.
GUTFELD: That hurts. 
WATTERS: Well, it's true. 
GUTFELD: You're hosting.
WATTERS: I am. You weren't supposed to say that. 
PERINO: That brings me to a pause. 
WATTERS: All right. 
PERINO: Can I be -- I mean, you're hosting?
WATTERS: Big changes in college sports this year, obviously. Everybody 
knows now some of these athletes can actually get paid through sponsorship 
deals. So, our friends at Rhoback have a new thing, the Rhoback U Program. 
It's the first apparel sponsorship program that rewards college athletes 
with real cash payments for their hard work both on and off the field. It 
has over 1000 athletes participating. 
So, if you are an athlete in college, and you know a college athlete, and 
if they want to participate, you have one more week to apply to Rhoback. 
So, go to rhoback.com and see if you can get a sponsorship deal. 
And also, THE FIVE, we just hit half a million on Instagram thanks to Greg. 
Congrats, everybody.
GUTFELD: Dana? 
PERINO: All right, from our friends at Fox Bet. You just down low the Fox 
Bet Super 6 app and you enter for a free chance to win $1 million of, 
believe this -- believe it or not, Terry Bradshaw's money, $1 million.
GUTFELD: I don't believe it.
PERINO: All you need to do is pick -- I know. I'm like, how do we -- is 
that real?
WATTERS: Terry has $1 million?
PERINO: OK, you just pick six outcomes from Sunday games, and you watch to 
see how it all plays out. It's free to play. You can just download again. 
Fox Bet Super 6. That's an app. 
GUTFELD: All right, Jessica. Any secrets? 
TARLOV: Not anymore. So, it's Kennedy's birthday. That is my "ONE MORE 
THING" for today. This is with her on the fourth of July with Degen's 
brother.
MCDOWELL: That's my brother. 
TARLOV: Who made delicious sourdough bread which I also learned to cook 
along with babies over the pandemic. Boozy brunch, Dagen there, Kat Timpf. 
MCDOWELL: Drunk. 
TARLOV: Drunk Dagan. Kennedy is a master at fishing guy in Adam's wedding. 
Happy second anniversary. They celebrated yesterday. Kennedy, at Kat 
Timpf's wedding. Kennedy, Kennedy all the time. 
WATTERS: Happy Birthday. 
TARLOV: She's been fantastic. Happy birthday to you. 
GUTFELD: Dagen, you've got 20 seconds. 
MCDOWELL: These two little boys in Batesville, Indiana. They got caught 
stopping at a funeral for an 89-year-old Charles Everett Yorn, a veteran. 
They stood and waited until taps were played and the gun salute. 
GUTFELD: Very nice. 
MCDOWELL: Well done, mom and dad. 
PERINO: They're so cool. 
GUTFELD: All right, that's it for us. "SPECIAL REPORT" is up next with the 
evil Shannon Bream. 
SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: Stay tuned to find out just how 
evil, Greg.
Content and Programming Copyright 2021 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL 
RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2021 VIQ Media Transcription, Inc.  All 
materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not 
be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast 
without the prior written permission of VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. You 
may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from 
copies of the content.