ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: Why the variants? They have seen 20 cases of different strains just last week and that number has already doubled. A sobering warning tonight.  Thanks so much to all of you for being with us. "AC360" starts right now.  [20:00:17]  JOHN BERMAN, CNN HOST: Good evening. John Berman here in for Anderson.  We begin with the very latest on golf legend, Tiger Woods and his condition after a car crash that authorities say could have easily been fatal. Fortunately, it was not.  But even a cursory look at the wreckage reveals just how bad it was and how close one of the game's very greatest came to losing it all on a dangerous stretch of Southern California road.  More from CNN's Nick Watt, who joins us now from the crash site in Rancho Palos Verdes south of Los Angeles. Nick, go ahead.  NICK WATT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, John, we still don't know exactly what went wrong, but we know that Woods was driving down this road, somehow crossed the median, hit a curb, flipped and ended up behind that bush.  Now, the County Sheriff points out that between the point where he crossed the median and where he landed is a few hundred feet which suggests that perhaps he was going at a greater speed than normal, but the sheriff also points out that this is a downhill windy road and accidents around here are not uncommon.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  WATT (voice over): Early morning, a winding downhill stretch of road, Tiger Woods was alone in that SUV trapped.  SHERIFF ALEX VILLANUEVA, LOS ANGELES COUNTY, CALIFORNIA: The first contact was with a center median and from there then crossed into the opposing lane of traffic, hit the curb, hit a tree and there were several rollovers during that process. He was alive and he was -- he was conscious.  CHIEF DARYL OSBY, LOS ANGELES COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT: It is my understanding that he had serious injuries to both legs.  WATT (voice over): The first call came in just after 7:00 a.m. Pacific Time.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Traffic collision, ALS now. Person is trapped.  WATT (voice over): Emergency personnel on the scene within minutes.  OSBY: We also used an axe to pry him from the vehicle. He was taken from the vehicle with C-collar and backboard for spinal precautions. He was transported in serious but stable condition.  WATT (voice over): Less than 10 miles to UCLA Harbor Hospital.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All we know that, it is a serious condition as a result of the accident and that's about all they want to say.  WATT (voice over): No sobriety test due to his injuries.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No evidence of impairment at this point in time.  WATT (voice over): Woods lives in Florida. So why was he on the West Coast? Well, you can almost read the words Genesis Invitational on the door of that crumpled SUV.  Woods was hosting that tournament just a few miles up the coast. It ended Sunday. He wasn't playing, but spoke about his chances of making it to the Masters in April, the scene of his most famous triumph.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Seven weeks from today, final round of the Masters. You're going to be there.  TIGER WOODS, PROFESSIONAL GOLFER: God, I hope so. I've got to get there first.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You feel like --  WOODS: A lot of -- a lot of space on my surgeons and my doctors and my therapist.  WATT (voice over): Yesterday, Woods was back on the golf course. Former NBA star, Dwyane Wade posted this video.  DWYANE WADE, FORMER NBA PLAYER: I've got Tiger. Thank you for teaching me something. How good am I or how bad am I?  WOODS: Good.  WATT (voice over): Tuesday morning, this. Not life threatening we're told, but a blow to all the world of sports.  Golf legend Jack Nicklaus tweeting, "Barbara and I just heard about Tiger's accident, and like everyone else, we are deeply concerned. We want to offer him our heartfelt support and prayers at this difficult time. Please join us in wishing Tiger, a successful surgery and all the best for a full recovery."  (END VIDEOTAPE)  BERMAN: And Nick Watt is back with us now. Nick, you're the first reporter I've had a chance to talk to you at the scene itself. Can you show us around a little bit more and give us a sense of the distances and where the car ended up?  WATT: Yes, it's actually kind of staggering, John to see just how far this car traveled. So just before that package, I was on the other side of that bush. The car looks like it hit the curb, flipped, and as the Sheriff said, rolled multiple times, through this whole area.  We see all of this devastation through here where the car has rolled, knocked this tree down and then where the car eventually ended up is just down over there where that other reporter is standing.  I'm going to walk over here now. So, this is where the car eventually ended up. That is a huge distance and as I say, the thing that really sticks in my mind is that the Sheriff said it rolled multiple times -- multiple times through this undergrowth before eventually coming to rest just over there -- John.  BERMAN: How far away is the road, Nick, from where you are?  WATT: So the road is about 20 feet over this way. So he was heading down, crossed the median, hit -- I mean, it is a few a hundred feet. I mean, I would be really interested to know how many times this car rolled, but it -- yes, I mean, it is a long way that Tiger Woods was alone in this car as it was rolling, spinning through this undergrowth landing up down there.  [20:05:24]  BERMAN: It is so helpful to see this, Nick. One thing to point out, we heard from law enforcement investigators, they found no skid marks on the roads there.  So if he was traveling at these high speeds, there's no at least physical evidence they've seen yet that he jammed the brakes or anything, right?  WATT: That's right. The Sheriff said that there were no skid marks on the road. And again, you know, he was choosing his words carefully. But he said, you know, based on this distance, he did say that it would appear that Mr. Woods was traveling at, I think, his words were a greater speed than normal.  But as he said, that's not uncommon. You know, this is a downhill stretch, your car is going to pick up momentum, pick up speed, perhaps without you even realizing it.  BERMAN: And that's one thing he pointed out, Nick, and just highlight that if you can, this is a stretch where they do see accidents and we have heard from drivers saying they find themselves going faster than they even realized, right?  WATT: Yes, absolutely. And you know, I'm a fast driver. It is easy to see on this road how you could be tempted to drive fast.  It is a perfect flawless surface. It is downhill. It was early in the morning. There may not have been many other cars around.  It is easy to see how you could without knowing it end up going faster than you realize. But as I mentioned before, we still don't know exactly what the initial reason was for him to -- for Tiger Woods to somehow lose control of this car.  And the Sheriff has said that, you know, it may be a few weeks the investigation is ongoing before we figure out exactly what went wrong there, and you can imagine they will obviously be talking to Tiger Woods himself to try and figure out what exactly happened.  BERMAN: In fact, the press briefing, the first press briefing ended not long ago, Nick, what did you learn from the first Deputy on the scene?  WATT: Well, it was fascinating, a young guy called Carlos Gonzalez, he was the first person here and you know, as is often the case, in a situation like this, the first person on the scene, the first few people talk to the victim to try and keep them calm.  Now, Carlos Gonzalez said he asked the man his name, Woods replied, "Tiger," they talked and he said that Tiger Woods didn't seem particularly concerned by his injuries at that point.  But of course, he mentioned that could have been just shock. But he said, you know, looking at the car, looking at Woods, looking at all this that I've just shown you. He said, "Mr. Woods is very fortunate to have come out of this alive."  BERMAN: Nick Watt, we're going to have a chance to talk to Sanjay in a minute just about what that type of conversation that level of response from Tiger Woods means for his medical condition. But thank you so much for being there for us and giving a sense -- giving us a sense of what the scene looks like.  It really paints a picture of just how much worse this could have been for Tiger Woods. Terrific reporting, Nick. Thanks so much.  So you saw Dwyane Wade in Nick's report. You saw Tiger Woods, that glorious smile with Dwyane Wade. Wade spoke about an hour ago about the accident and golfing with Tiger Woods this weekend.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  WADE: I had an unbelievable opportunity yesterday, and Candace and I, we flew up here together and we spoke about it, you know, like, I picked up the golf club, like many in the black community because of Tiger Woods. And I got that opportunity yesterday to get out there. And game -- you  know, he taught me a few things. Hopefully, it translates, but, you know, to be out there with, you know, the GOAT in my eyes, you know, in that sport and be able to talk to him about Sam and Charlie and his father.  And, you know, just -- it was a great day, and then I woke up today so proud to be able to post that moment, you know, for the world to be able to get like a -- you know, like a little snippet of our moment together.  And I took a nap and I woke up and I woke up to the news. And so, you know, just like, you know, everybody out there, my thoughts and prayers go out to his loved ones because we are all shaken and shook at that moment not knowing, you know what happened with Tiger.  So just my prayers go out to him. And hopefully, you know, hopefully a speedy recovery for him, and hopefully get a chance to get back to doing what he loves to do and that's playing a game of golf.  And I am just thankful that he took the time to be able to teach me a few things about the game yesterday.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  BERMAN: More now on Woods' condition. For that, let's go to CNN's Josh Campbell at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center.  Josh, what are you learning about the extent of Woods injuries?  JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Very serious injuries, John. In fact, he was brought here to this level one trauma center, which serves the South Bay area here in Los Angeles.  Now, we were reporting earlier from our sources that he -- Woods had received compound fractures to at least one perhaps two legs. We're now hearing also from our colleagues at "The New York Times" that those injuries also include a shattered ankle, two broken legs, and two leg fracture.  [20:10:15]  CAMPBELL: So very serious injuries, obviously, brought here for medical care at this enhanced facility. And I just want to go back to something you were pointing out a second ago with Nick, when you look at everything that transpired, a vehicle going downhill across oncoming traffic into this area with all these trees and all this vegetation, it is simply a miracle that these injuries weren't even worse or perhaps fatal.  And of course, it's also worth noting that Tiger Woods is no stranger to injuries. We know that just last month, he had back surgery. That was actually the fifth back surgery of his -- or the fifth surgery of his career.  It's worth noting also that over the weekend, he was talking to CBS and said that he hoped that he would be well enough to take part in the Masters at Augusta in April, of course now, this accident raising serious questions about what his condition will be as he remains in this hospital behind me tonight being treated for those injuries after that very violent crash here in Los Angeles this morning.  BERMAN: Josh, my eyes keep on glancing down at the pictures of this car, this vehicle being raised up by a crane there and the front is gone. There's no front to this car anymore.  So you get a sense, again of how much worse this could have been. The extensive damage to the car itself, which leads us to Tiger Woods and his condition.  Josh Campbell, thanks so much.  Let's turn to CNN chief medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta.  Sanjay, first of all here, you know, it's good news compared to what I think we all feared earlier today, let's just say that and we hope that as the evening progresses, we learn more about Tiger Woods improving.  But what do you think is most concerning about what we know about his injuries so far?  DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, they described his condition as being a serious condition, you know, which typically means that while it's not critical, he's having these periods of time where his vital signs may have become unstable.  It sounds like that's usually when you're talking about significant fractures like this. That's because of the bleeding that's associated with that. And you can have a significant amount of bleeding from these bone fractures in the legs.  They also, as you heard, described them as a compound fracture, which is an open fracture, you know, and the bone actually protrudes from the skin, something that would have been noticeable at the time of the injury. And again, something that obviously needs to be treated very quickly.  But as you point out, John, there were lots of other clues. I was listening to all of these news conferences today. The Deputy who arrived there was talking to Tiger Woods, described him as calm and lucid.  He basically did check him for his orientation to person, place and time. He was able to tell him who he was, he knew where he was, knew what time it was. So that's all good signs, not only in terms of his, you know, likelihood of not having a brain injury, but his ability to breathe.  They were able to get him out, you know, extricate him through the windshield, put him on a spine board, and probably put a neck collar on him. These are all the things you do as precautionary measures. But, John, to your question, I think it sounds like and we don't know  for sure. I mean, we can't speculate. We only know at that point in time what the EMS sort of saw; what the further assessment has revealed at the hospital, we just don't know.  It sounds like the biggest concerns really are just his legs, possible bleeding, and possible nerve damage as a result of the fractures. I'm sure we'll hear more from the doctors in some time to come.  BERMAN: You talked about what injuries are immediately evident. What are the types of things that might be found later?  GUPTA: Well, you know, I mean, when someone has a car accident like this, and you know, the car crumbled the way that it's supposed to, it decelerates more slowly because the front end of that car absorbs a lot of the energy.  We know he was wearing a seatbelt. He had the airbags that were deployed. But you still have to basically do a full assessment. That would involve scanning his brain, checking for any other broken bones or any other organ injuries. Is there an injury to his spleen and liver? Anything else?  Are there other broken bones? You know when someone is removed from a vehicle like this, you sort of have this scoop and run mentality, meaning you do some assessment at the scene and you stabilize things that you need to stabilize, but most of the assessment, John is then done at the hospital. Looking literally from head to toe to see if there are any other injuries.  And you always just have to assume that there may be other injuries given the mechanism of the accident here. So hopefully there's not. We know -- I think, we know from Josh's reporting that Tiger Woods went into surgery shortly after he arrived at the hospital. Most likely if it happened that quickly, it was to address significant bleeding, which would have also been the reason that his vital signs may have been fluctuating a bit.  BERMAN: Sanjay, we keep seeing extraordinary pictures from the scene itself. This, as investigators measuring the damage done to the car or earlier, we had seen different footage of the car being lifted up here, the vehicle being lifted up, then our Nick Watt gave us a tour of the scene.  [20:15:13]  BERMAN: These are some live pictures of that now, and Nick pointed out just how far this car rolled. This vehicle rolled well -- well off the roadway into the brushes and the bush here. The front of the car completely crushed.  Although the cabin itself was relatively intact, and that maybe what saved Tiger Woods' life. The jaws-of-life despite what was first reported, not necessary, they did use some kind of device to pry him out. And one of the things that they said at the news conference, and I  could tell that this was of great interest to you is the fact that Tiger Woods, when they reached him was conscious and talking.  So how much can you read into that?  GUPTA: Yes, quite a bit. You know, I mean, again, I think you're getting a snapshot in time and we always talk about this and trauma care that, you know, what was the situation at the time knowing full well that people either because of injuries that have not yet been assessed, could have you know, periods where they just decompensate. So you have to always be thinking about that.  But it was interesting to hear and I paid pretty close attention. First of all, a call came in at 7:12 a.m., 7:22 a.m. is when the Deputy arrived on the scene and it sounded like about six minutes later, they actually had the Fire Department that started that process of extricating him as you point out not with the jaws-of-life, not with that gigantic machine. But with an axe, and a prying sort of tool, taking him through the windshield.  People were saying, well, he wasn't standing. I can tell you that that's not surprising at all, John, in these situations, you wouldn't ask someone to stand. You have to assume again that there are all of these other injuries until you can rule them out, including spinal cord injury.  So that's why someone would go straight onto a backboard and be placed in a collar, as was mentioned. But that's sort of, you know, that's the assessment.  There was a couple other clues. They actually transported him by ground. So that gives you some indication of their level of concern. They also took him to a trauma center Harbor-UCLA, which is a little further away from a closer hospital. It's a trauma center, which is important, further away. Again, these are the real time decisions. They are saying he can tolerate the travel, the transport to the trauma center, that's a better place for him to be and we we're not worried about the extra transport time.  So all of these things all sort of give you a clue of how these medical professionals are sort of thinking through the situation. I'm sure when they again got to the hospital, that's when you have the sort of full, full assessment, CAT scans, evaluating all of his blood numbers, see what kind of -- how much bleeding has actually occurred? What's happening with his vital signs? How quickly does he need to get to the operating room?  All of that happens pretty quickly after he gets to the hospital.  BERMAN: Sanjay, don't go far. Thank you so much for helping us understand the bits of information that have come through already. We appreciate it.  Perspective now from someone who really needs no introduction beyond saying he's a legendary broadcaster and a CNN contributor, Bob Costas. Bob, it's an honor to speak with you. I wish it were under better  circumstances. Although, I must say, it's better tonight than I think it felt for a lot of us this afternoon.  When you first heard that Tiger Woods was in this accident, with the scant information that we had and the pictures of the mangled car. What went through your mind?  BOB COSTAS, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, when you see those pictures and the car and the condition it was in, and this was even before we had Nick Watt and what you just showed us and we got a sense of how long a distance was traversed, tumbling over and over from the road into the woods where they eventually found the car.  But even just looking at that visual initially, and then hearing erroneously that they were talking about having used the jaws-of-life to extricate Tiger, and at that point, we didn't know whether he was conscious when they got to him or not.  We now know that he was. We now know that the injuries are not life threatening, but they most surely are career threatening if we're talking about him ever again playing competitive golf at anything like his previous level.  BERMAN: You know, it's sometimes cliche to say that someone or something transcends sport. But Tiger Woods does more than transcend sport. I mean, he is an icon and for what -- three decades now in one form or another, has just been a huge figure in our culture.  COSTAS: Well, if he didn't transcend sports, then this would be an item that would be no less significant on an individual human level, but it would be an item on the news instead of the lead for hours after hours on CNN and elsewhere, when there is news elsewhere.  People are intensely interested in this, not just because of his excellence. It's a combination of factors. And since I was on earlier with Jake, and then Wolf, I fear I'm repeating myself, and I apologize. But there's only so much that can be said.  [20:20:21]  COSTAS: It's a combination of factors. It's his excellence. But it's also the charisma and the compelling presence, something he has in common with someone like Michael Jordan, and just a very few others, and also the fact that his story both athletically and especially personally, with this being the latest chapter has all kinds of drama, all kinds of peaks and valleys to it.  So it's a compelling story, you need not know the difference between a sand wedge and a three iron, to be interested in Tiger Woods and to know who he is.  BERMAN: No, it's his strength on the golf course that made him famous. It's his occasional weakness and frailty that makes him human. And I think more interesting and more relatable, in many ways to the American people. And we saw it and we lived through it. It was 2009, obviously, when he  had a failed marriage and had to apologize to his family and to the world what he went through, and then it was 10 years, until he won another major, but that comeback was one of the most remarkable things in sports, Bob.  COSTAS: Yes, and people love a comeback story. Generally speaking, they love a comeback story in sports. They love it on a personal level if the person's story is dramatic, and often widely understood as Tiger's was, so it had all those elements.  There was a time just from a strictly golf standpoint, when it seemed almost certain that he would go past the great Jack Nicklaus. He had won 14 majors in the space of barely more than a decade. He won his first in '97. He won his 14th in 2008, and even then, hobbling on a bad leg.  He was hobbling around in the playoff round against Rocco Mediate, which was a minor drama in and of itself. If I can insert something parenthetically. It's often the greats who give the lesser lights their moments, taking nothing away from Rocco Mediate.  If it was someone else he was battling to win the U.S. Open, even though it's a major, it wouldn't have been as compelling. This had an element of "Rocky" to it or a Tin Cup to it.  Here's Rocco Mediate going stroke for stroke into a playoff round against the great Tiger Woods. That was Tiger's 14th. Then he goes as you say, a decade when he was once rattling them off multiple majors in the space of a year.  Now he goes a decade before winning his 15th so what once was a foregone conclusion now he is almost certainly stalled at 15th and Jack Nicklaus's record is safe.  BERMAN: You know, Rocco Mediate said in the HBO documentary that he tried to make a deal with the devil to beat Tiger Woods in that tournament, but it turns out that Tiger had already made one years before and it was unbreakable. Mediate couldn't do anything to get in there.  We saw -- and I don't know if you had a chance to see it, the video that Dwyane Wade posted from just a few days ago.  COSTAS: I did.  BERMAN: Golfing with Tiger Woods, the smile on Tiger Woods' face there, which actually isn't something you see much of with Tiger Woods. When he is on the golf course, he gets happy when he wins, but it's a different type of happiness. It's a fierceness.  But that smile radiated when he was just out there playing with Dwyane Wade and to hear Dwyane Wade say, Dwyane Wade, an NBA Hall of Famer say that he took up golf like so many African-Americans because of Tiger Woods. That's pretty remarkable. COSTAS: Well keep this in mind, there were notable figures like Lee  Elder and Charlie Sifford, and others. But when Tiger won his first major, and won it overwhelmingly, I think broke the course record, as I remember the tournament record in 1997.  Augusta National had only admitted its first African-American member several years earlier, 1990, and now it's 1997.  Think of the symbolism of him walking up the 18th Fairway for all the majesty of Augusta, and it's a wonderful place, all the history and it is set apart from every other course in every other tournament.  But it embodies in many ways, especially then, the Antebellum South, all the caddies were black. None of the players were black. Virtually the entire staff was black, but all the members were white men. They didn't admit women until many years after into the 21st Century.  So think of the symbolism of that when Tiger Woods wins at Augusta for his first major in 1997. It didn't, as it happens, John, it didn't spark as much of a widespread interest in golf in the black community at least so far as we can measure it.  There were academies in inner cities and outreach and there was some increased interest, but certainly among those with the means, and you know, as much sometimes about class as it is about race, people like Dwyane Wade have the means.  [20:25:18]  COSTAS: Michael Jordan has the means, that's only at the top of it, but those with the means can play golf more readily than those without, but I certainly understand what Dwyane Wade is saying.  He sees Tiger Woods, he sees someone on TV at the tournaments that he can more readily relate to than someone else. So there you go.  BERMAN: Bob Costas. Let's hope someday that we talk about a Ben Hogan like comeback here. And even if we don't, let's just hope for Tiger Woods say that he gets his life back. That's more important than golf to be sure. Thanks so much for being with us.  COSTAS: OK, John.  BERMAN: So as we've been talking about, at his zenith, Tiger Woods was professional golf's superhero, but after his last win at Augusta in 2019, he looked back on his many injuries and how he could imagine playing all five rounds at the then upcoming Ryder Cup, never mind how hard it was at times to even stand up.  (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  WOODS: It is already a known fact that I don't play five sessions anymore. I just don't. That's a young man's game. I couldn't move. I couldn't even get to the mirror.  So there were times when I couldn't get to a mirror, I couldn't stand up. So ...  QUESTION: What did you do?  WOODS: What I did, I saw a guy that could move very well hunched over and needed help to get around the house, to go to the bathroom and just anything and that was a long period of time. So very thankful that those are -- those dark days are behind me.  (END VIDEO CLIP)  BERMAN: Well, here's 360's Randi Kaye with a look at Tiger Woods remarkable golfing career, and some of the struggles he's had off the green.  (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): He is one of the greatest golfers of all time, and perhaps one of the greatest athletes, too.  It all started before Tiger Woods even turned two when his father began teaching him the game of golf. Around that time in 1978, Tiger putted with comedian Bob Hope on the "Mike Douglas Show."  Tiger Woods first turned professional in 1996 at the age of 20. Less than a year later, he was number one in the world. In all, he has won 15 major golf tournaments trailing only Jack Nicklaus who has 18.  He was also the youngest player to achieve the career Grand Slam and is expected to be inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame this year.  Tiger's fame kept him in the headlines, but not all of it was positive. His squeaky clean image took a hit in 2009 when his SUV struck a fire hydrant outside his Florida home. A neighbor called 911.  911 Operator: Okay, now, are they trapped inside of the vehicle?  CALLER: No, they're laying on the ground now.  KAYE (voice over): His wife at the time had taken a golf club to the SUV's back window. She said it was to free him.  Rumors began to swirl that Tiger had been unfaithful. Before the couple decided to divorce, Tiger tried to cover up the affair leaving this voicemail for the Las Vegas waitress he'd been seeing.  WOODS: Hey, it's Tiger. I need you to do me a huge favor. Can you please take your name off your phone -- my wife's onto my phone and maybe calling you.  KAYE (voice over): Tiger later apologized for his infidelity. Years later, back pain sidelined Tiger forcing the golf champ to undergo multiple back surgeries.  In 2017, police found Tiger asleep at the wheel of his Mercedes Benz on a Florida road. His car was still running. Tiger's speech was slurred, the police report said and pain pills were in his system. The golf great would later say he didn't know how strong the  medication was following surgery. He pled guilty to reckless driving and took full responsibility for his actions.  Tiger fought his way back going on to win his first major in 11 years, the 2019 Masters championship.  WOODS: There's a time when I think that would never happen again, until this last procedure, which was fantastic so I get a chance to do it. I don't know how long I'm going to do it for, so I'm just going to enjoy every step of the way.  KAYE (voice over): But his back pain returned, leading him to get another surgery last month. He was feeling good enough though to go golfing with the basketball great Dwyane Wade on Monday.  This video shows them joking around just a day before the crash.  WADE:  ... right here man. I've got Tiger. Thank you for teaching me something.  KAYE (voice over): As Tiger Woods fights to recover in the hospital, family, friends and fans can only hope there are more good times ahead.  Randi Kaye, CNN, West Palm Beach, Florida.  (END VIDEOTAPE)  [20:30:08]  BERMAN: And for more on what happened to the accident scene today, I'm joined now by Los Angeles County Fire Chief Daryl Osby. Chief, thanks so much for being with us. You said earlier today that when Tiger Woods was found he was in serious condition but was stable enough to get to a trauma center. Can you just tell us a little bit more about his condition and how he was situated when your team got to him? DARYL OSBY, FIRE CHIEF, LOS ANGELES COUNTY FIRE: Yes. Thank you very much for that question. When my personnel arrived on scene, they arrived and the vehicle was turned over on the passenger side with significant front end damage. Tiger Woods was alerted oriented and he was trying to stop extricate but he was unable.  So my firefighters used a halligan to they help pry the seats in the middle from around his legs. They also use an axe to break out the windshield. At the same time the firefighters and paramedics were keeping c-spine precautions for us for potential neck and back injuries. They were able to get him on a back board, split his legs and transport him to a trauma center. The reason we took them to a trauma Center is because the mechanism of injury. It was a turnover vehicle with significant injuries. And that requires a trauma center transportation. The reason we did not take them to the nearest hospital because he has significant injuries, but they weren't life threatening. If they were life threatening for example, if we were unable to control his airway as an example, then we would have taken him to the nearest hospital. BERMAN: At what point did the first responders realize that it was Tiger Woods in the car? OSBY: Actually, a deputy sheriff from the Los Angeles County Sheriff Department arrived on scene first, and he spoke to Mr. Woods and he identified himself as Tiger. But then it was also brought to my attention that once my responders arrived on scene, because we know, as we know, Tiger Woods is a very famous golf player, they recognize him immediately. BERMAN: And despite first report, the jaws of life were not used. But your team did have to pry him out of the car and I understand an axe was used. Was he aware of what was happening? What was the nature or details of the conversation he was having? OSBY: Actually, you're right about the jaws of life, we have that set aside as part of our cadre of potential tools to utilize. But it wasn't necessary. We're able to break the windshield open with an axe and use the (INAUDIBLE) to deprive him open by the car open and extricate his legs. He was alerted oriented the entire time. I don't have the details in relation to the type of dialogue he was having with my personnel because he wasn't aware of his surroundings. BERMAN: Any more information on the nature of his injuries that were apparent at first, and what they might be now and if he's out of surgery. OSBY: Initially, like I indicated before, they were really concerned about spinal cord potential spinal cord injury, so they put them on a back board. And they carefully removed him through the windshield to make sure that we didn't compromise his neck or his back.  It's my understanding that he had minor lacerations. And he had potential broken bones and both of his legs. He was transported to the trauma center, whether it was an emergency operations conducted by the physicians. I'm unaware of the outcome of the operation at this time. BERMAN: Chief Osby, thanks very much for being with us. And bringing us up to speed on what you know as we again, we see these remarkable pictures of the crash scene itself. We appreciate your help, sir. OSBY: Right. (INAUDIBLE). Thank you very much. BERMAN (voice-over): Next, day one of hearings on the January 6 insurrection, the campaign by some to pretend it was something else, and a congressman and former Army Ranger who saw exactly what it was up close, keeping them honest. And later, new setbacks in the Biden administration's effort to get its people confirmed by the Senate. (COMMERICAL BREAK) [20:36:40] BERMAN: It will shock you how much it never happened. When the writers of Mad Men 20 years ago put those words in Don Draper's mouth they had no idea that some Senate Republicans would take them to heart today about the attack on democracy that left five people dead, a president impeached and now hundreds of people from all around the country charged with serious federal crimes.  Yet and what should have been purely a search for answers. That was a key theme of today's opening hearing about January 6. The case for amnesia and from one senator today a bogus argument for pretending it wasn't what it really was. Or this from the guy caught saluting the gathering mob who me? Taking together they speak volumes about how committed some members of the Republican Party still are to pretending that scenes like this look somehow different by gaslight. (voice-over): The problem is we all saw it happen and have since learned it was even worse than this. We saw cops crushed in doorways beaten with flagpoles trampled and maimed and killed. We saw the Trump flags and MAGA caps and we saw the Capitol overrun for the first time in more than two centuries by a ragtag army fed lie after lie month after month by some of the senators at the hearing today, then whipped up further by the commander-in-chief. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, FMR PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: We're going to walk down to the Capitol. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. (CROSSTALK) UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. (CROSSTALK) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Invade the Capitol building. Take the Capitol. (CROSSTALK) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Take the Capitol right now. (END VIDEO CLIP) BERMAN: We saw what happened next and what did not happen, most notably, any backup in the moment from the National Guard. Today's hearing with testimony from the former top security and law enforcement officials that day was supposed to focus on that and intelligence failure surrounding the attack. And to the credit of Democrats and some Republicans to, it did. That said despite charges against dozens of alleged QAnon conspiracist far- right, paramilitary Oath Keepers and white supremacist Proud Boys. Part of the proceeding still had to be devoted to debunking right-wing falsehoods, like this one. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's no evidence that white supremacists are responsible for what happened on January 6, that's a lie. (END VIDEO CLIP) BERMAN: Keeping them honest, it's only a lie if you give more credence to a cable polemicist than the law enforcement and security professionals he claims to care so much about. They had this to say about it today. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): Based on what we know now, including the recent Department of Justice indictment. Do you agree that there is now clear evidence that supports the conclusion that the January 6 insurrection was planned? And it was a coordinated attack on the U.S. Capitol. Just say and when agree. [20:40:13] UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. KLOBUCHAR: OK. Would you agree that this attack involve white supremacists and extremist groups? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. (END VIDEO CLIP) BERMAN: That and we'll look at the arrest records should have been enough. But it's never enough for Wisconsin Republican Senator Ron Johnson, who recently said the attack didn't look like an armed insurrection to him and is a serial spreader of election lies, he used his time to read from an account and a conservative publication suggesting that left-wing agitators and fake Trump supporters were responsible for the attack which in his telling, reads more like a picnic gone sour. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. RON JOHNSON (R-WI): A very few didn't share the jovial, friendly, earnest demeanor the great majority, some obviously didn't fit in and he describes four different types of people, plainclothes militants, agents provocateurs, fake Trump protesters, and then discipline uniform column of attackers. I think these the people that probably plan this. (END VIDEO CLIP) BERMAN: Needless to say that account amplified by a sitting U.S. Senator resembles precisely none of what we saw that day, and none of what we've learned since then, including from those former officials today. And again, many of the Republican members did, in fact, take their testimony and the proceedings seriously. Senator Ted Cruz, on the other hand, was caught on camera playing with his phone during opening statements. As you know, he's another election lie spreader and more recently, a Texas climate fugitive of sorts. Maybe he was checking flights. As for Missouri, Republican Josh Hawley, he was at the hearing as well. And afterwards he had this to say when asked whether his repeated insinuations about the election made him complicit in the attack. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. JOSH HAWLEY (R-MO): That's outrageous. I would it's absolutely outrageous and an utter lie. And no one I think who knows any of the facts alleges any such thing. (END VIDEO CLIP) BERMAN: Yes, I'll show you outrageous. It looks a lot like this. Surely before airtime, I spoke with Colorado Democratic Congressman Jason Crow, who was pinned down with other members in the house gallery during the assault. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BERMAN (on-camera): Congressman Crow, thanks so much for joining us. So what did you make of what you heard today? Obviously, a lot of important information was discussed. But there was also finger pointing, among the law enforcement officials as well as, frankly, conspiracy theories from Republican senators. So what's your reaction? REP. JASON CROW (D-CO): Yes, thanks, John, thank you for having me on. Obviously, some of the conduct of Republican senators continues to be very disgraceful. Those folks need to be held accountable for their involvement here, and helping, you know, lead us to January 6. But you know, largely, you know, there are still far more questions than there are answers to those questions or failures at multiple levels.  What is very clear after today's testimony, what I want to know is why that intelligence assessment, those threat streams that were conducted that the FBI didn't make it to the U.S. Capitol Police and to Capitol Hill and those who are responsible for the complex. There are also questions about the responsiveness or lack thereof of the National Guard. Why wasn't the National Guard prepared and ready to respond as well? So, we're going to have to do a lot more investigation. That's one of the reasons why I'm leading the Government Accountability Office investigation from the House of Representatives perspective, to conduct that more robust review. BERMAN (on-camera): So after the insurrection, you told Rolling Stone, quote, this was a catastrophic security failure. If this were a military operation, the officers in charge of that operation would have been relieved to command on the spot. So did you hear anything today that convinced you that officials understand and accept why this was such a failure of intelligence and security? CROW: No, I didn't. And I stand by what I said, you know, several weeks ago, it remains true, it is catastrophic. This was a devastating security failure, when you have a situation where the attack was actually being planned and open anybody with a Facebook account, or a Twitter feed, could have told you there was going to be a problem.  And they had to have resources available to respond to that problem and that violence, but they didn't do it. So we have to figure out where it stopped, who didn't know what was going to happen that needed to know what was going to happen, and why were the preparations not made in advance. And ultimately, you know, that the rank and file police officers that responded overwhelmingly, in a very courageous way and there's a few bad apples that are being addressed, but overwhelmingly the response of the Capitol Police was incredibly courageous and obviously several lost their lives. You know, those folks deserve much better than this. BERMAN (on-camera): You're talking about preparedness. They're obviously you're an Army Ranger. In terms of communication Training and response capability, do they have what they need to repel this kind of attack? [20:45:07] CROW: Well, the answer has to be no. Right? I mean, it was devastating on January 6, we still don't have answers. The fact that we don't have answers to how this happened actually tells you all you need to know, you know, if there was a process in place to assess intelligence, to assess threats, and to disseminate those threats down to the operational ground level to prepare and respond to those in a very quick and nimble way, we would actually already have answers to the questions that we're still searching for, but we don't. Which tells me that there's larger structural problems that have to be addressed here, in terms of the organization of the security forces for Capitol Hill, the relationships between the National Guard, the FBI, the Department of Justice, and the U.S. Capitol, police and others, we're going to have to figure all of that out. And there might have to be, you know, major changes to the way that it's structured. BERMAN (on-camera): The fact that you see, so few answers, as we sit here tonight indicates that there is a lot more work to do. And one of the ways that may happen, is through a 9/11 style commission. And Representative Liz Cheney, who's the number three Republican in the House, was quoted as saying she wants to see a commission that goes just beyond frankly, just the security failings, she wants it to look into what role the former president might have played. Do you agree with that? Does it make sense to expand the scope of the commission? CROW: I don't see any other way to do it. Right. And not to have that large of a scope, right, because you just can't look at what happened to the 6th. This actually started months ago, with the President's rhetoric, him telling the big lie over and over again, enablers, helping him move that lie forward over a period of several months. And then of course, lighting the match on January 6. So you have to look at the entire environment in this entire conspiracy, if you will, that led to that attack. You could just can't look at the events of the 6th or even just the days leading up to it. BERMAN (on-camera): Congressman Crow, thanks for being with us tonight. CROW: Thank you. (END VIDEOTAPE) BERMAN: Just ahead, we're going to go to the White House dig into the confirmation battles that have suddenly beset several of President Biden's nominees. Will the President see his first cabinet picks go down to the feet? The details when "360" returns. (COMMERICAL BREAK) BERMAN: So what it wants been a relatively smooth running nomination process for President Biden's cabinet picks is no more Several who could have sway over key areas of the Biden agenda including COVID relief and health care now facing the prospect of defeat or at least a lot less easy confirmation. A reminder of the razor's edge whose agenda rests upon with that 50-50 Senate split. [20:50:15] Our Chief White House correspondent Kaitlan Collins joins us now with the latest. Kaitlan, let's start with Neera Tanden, the President's nominee to run the Office of Management and Budget, because her confirmation seems to be the most in jeopardy. What's the latest on that tonight? KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: It certainly is the most in jeopardy and the White House is standing by her publicly saying they feel like they are going to find the votes to get her confirmed. But it seems pretty unlikely at this point, based on what we're hearing from people over on the Hill. So that still remains a pretty big question.  We should note that there are several crucial Republican and Democratic senators who have come out and said they are not going to vote for her. There are still a few more that the White House is waiting to hear from and what they said today was that she Neera Tanden has rolled up her sleeves and is making a lot of these calls herself whether or not that's directly to these lawmakers. It still remains to be seen. But she is the most in jeopardy of actually failing. And if she does, it would be President Biden's first casualty among his cabinet picks. So, right now the White House is counting on a Republican to come out and say that they will support her. So far, none of them have but there is going to be a committee vote tomorrow and the White House press secretary told me earlier that they still plan on near attended being his budget pick when that vote is scheduled to happen tomorrow, John. BERMAN: So, interior and Health and Human Services Congresswoman Deb Haaland and Xavier Becerra, what are the prospects for their nominations look like? Because they're not completely smooth either. COLLINS: They're not and you saw some pretty contentious hearings happening today on Capitol Hill, a lot of the questioning with Republican senators especially got pretty tough when it came to these two nominees, they seem more likely to get confirmed, even if it's only on party lines. And you had the Vice President come in and cast that tie breaking boat.  But Becerra of course, is a notable one because if he is confirmed, he's going to be running a critical agency that is tasked with dealing with this pandemic that has killed half a million Americans. And what you heard from today for Republicans were that they were concerned he doesn't have enough experience as a direct healthcare professional to really take over that job.  Of course, there have been nominees and health secretaries in the past that have not had that experience there that have made it through confirmation. So that remains to be seen. He also gone to a back and forth with Senator Romney over a vote that he had previously on partial abortion. But Deb Haaland over at Interior, she would be the first Native American to be confirmed to this post. She's the first to be nominated to a president's cabinet, but she was facing some really tough questioning as well, as far as for past criticisms that she's made not that long ago, John about Republicans. One tweet saying that Republicans don't believe in science. And of course, she was being questioned by several doctors on that committee, including one Republican doctor who was saying, you think we don't believe in science. So, you saw some contentious some tense exchanges, they are more likely to get confirmed than Neera Tanden, but we are still really waiting to see how all of this is going to shake out. BERMAN: Kaitlan Collins, thanks so much. Perspective now from David Axelrod, a CNN senior political commentator and former senior adviser to President Obama. And David, I do think it is worth noting that I can't think of a president who got everyone he first wanted confirm, correct. DAVID AXELROD, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes. You'll remember back in 2009 we lost Tom Daschle who is going to be -- who is going through the position that Becerra is hoping to fill now. And because of internal disputes within the Senate, we weren't able to get him through, there was a tax issue that probably wouldn't have tripped him up, but for those internal issues. So, you know, these things happen. And I believe that, you know, Neera Tanden's nomination is in jeopardy largely because of her tweets. Kind of ironic, because many of the people who are raising objections about her tweets, had very little to say when the previous president was lighting people up on an hourly basis on Twitter, but nonetheless, she's antagonized with those tweets, she antagonize both people on the left and the right. So it doesn't, you know, it looks like an uphill fight for her. I believe the other two are going to get nominated. And remember, these hearings are a chance not only for people to probe the candidates, but also the go on record in opposition to elements of the President's policies. Some of the senators don't like Joe Biden's climate policies, for example. So Deb Haaland is hearing a lot of that, in these hearings. Senator Romney on late term abortion. So, you know, this is I think, a normal part of the process. The thing that has slowed it down more than anything, is that there was an impeachment hearing in the middle of it. BERMAN: Neera Tanden, how long can the White House hold on here? AXELROD: Well, I think we're coming to a critical juncture. I mean, these committee votes are going to be important. Look, they can count and I think they will know pretty quickly whether this is a doable thing or not. And if it's not, I suspect they will withdraw her before it ever gets to vote. But you know, they're committed to her to this point. [20:55:14] I know her very well. She's very talented. She's been a very fierce partisan at times, and that is catching up with her here, but she's also very bright and very able. So, I'm sure that if she doesn't get this position, she may turn up somewhere else in the administration. But right now, you'd have to say if there was one who wasn't going to make it across the river here, it would be her. BERMAN: Very quickly just talking about Joe Manchin for a second here, because he is that 50th Democratic vote. And he faces a lot of criticism from the left for saying he opposes near attended. But that criticism, I imagine he wears as a badge of honor when he goes home to West Virginia. AXELROD: Yes, I mean and on that one, let's point out Bernie Sanders hasn't been exactly friendly to her either, because she wasn't friendly to him in her campaign -- in this campaign against her patron, Hillary Clinton. So, you know, it's not just a left right thing there. But there are other issues on which I'm sure Manchin is very happy to be hectored by the left because he comes from a state that overwhelmingly supported Donald Trump. And he prides himself on being a moderate and an independent. And so no, it doesn't hurt him at all. BERMAN: David Axelrod, great to see you tonight. Thanks so much for being with us. AXELROD: Good to see you. BERMAN: Ahead, more on the breaking news this evening. Reaction some of the people who know Tiger Woods best, when we return. (COMMERICAL BREAK) BERMAN: An outpouring of prayers online for Tiger Woods in his recovery by his fans but also his friends and others who know him best. Fellow PGA golfer Phil Mickelson tweeted quote, we're all pulling for you Tiger. We're so sorry that you and your family are going through this tough time. Everyone hopes and prays for your full and speedy recovery. Olympic skier and Woods former girlfriend Lindsey Vonn tweeted quote, praying for TW right now. And then there's actress Jada Pinkett Smith who's said she golf with Tiger just yesterday, she tweeted quote, prayers up for the GOAT, Tiger Woods who was in an accident this morning was just with him yesterday. Don't take not even a moment for granted. I know you're good because your Tiger within is a beast. [21:00:15] And breaking just now, a tweet from former President Obama quote sending my prayers to Tiger Woods and his family tonight. Here's to a speedy recovery for the goat of golf. If we've learned anything over the years, it's never account Tiger out. The news continues. So let's hand it over Chris for "CUOMO PRIME TIME". 